

Volume 50 Number 12" December 1963, Lessons for March ""™"" f ee BOSSE OMA LERNER ties _ Gentle their hands with newborn lamb, Strong against its foe, And swift their feet to follow where > A wandering sheep may go. Proud is a shepherd's heritage, For once to men like them On far Judean hills was given The song of Bethlehem. The Cover: | Flight Into Egypt, From a Painting by Dalsgaard Camera Clix, New York City, New York Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: || Mt. Timpanogos, Utah - Photograph by Hal Rumel Art Layout: § Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes tt alll é a.,' f ¢ ——_ x # ° q P i £ / i # f. > ed 4 " 'ho 4 of Fe +4 P = e" 4 PST ISS | ee ae AP MSEAE EO i CAA REL eG a TAR el MEPS AES CAI <UL PRINT aah PORT MY RETS -7 I certainly did enjoy the article in the October Magazine "A Message to Young Mothers." It really hit home and was just what I needed. And the story about "The Farm Cellar of Long Ago" just made my mouth water with delight, and as usual, the cover was lovely. It brought a lump to my throat to see this photograph ("Autumn Leaves on a Pool," by L. Paul Roberts) and it gave me a longing once more to see that golden autumn. —Mrs. Rae Woolf Anaheim, California In sixteen months it will be our turn to go home to Utah—after about four years of wonderful experiences here in New Zealand. With all the moving, the homesickness, and the usual adjustments, we wouldn't trade these four years for any other time in our lives. The wonderful Relief Society Magazine has followed us wherever we have gone, and its pages have been read and digested as never before because, as with all things of great value, this labor mission has taught us the true worth of both material and spiritual things. Our testimonies have grown and we are thankful to be members of the Church. —Elaine Fluhman Henderson, New Zealand In the recent splendid September issue of the fine, helpful Relief Society Magazine I especially enjoyed the article "From the Palace of a Princess to a Place in Normandy," by Claire Noall. This descriptive article is very beautiful and interspersed with interesting history about the locality. The pictures are vividly colorful, and they give one who has longed to travel a clear picture of the Norman country and people. Being a semi shut-in for years, I have thoroughly enjoyed the Magazine. —Anne H. J. Gebhart Salt Lake City, Utah 882 I would like to express how deeply I was impressed with the wonderful article written by Belva Barlow, "Relief Society — A Blessing to Young Women," in the August issue of the © Magazine. Oh, how it will help and awaken our young mothers to the great love and assistance they will receive from attending Relief Society regularly. —Gudrun K. Shurtliff Ogden, Utah Let me thank you for publishing my story "The Restyling" in the September issue of the Magazine. I especially appreciate the art work that was done for it. It really enhanced the page. —Dorothea J. Neilson Salt Lake City, Utah I appreciate the October issue of the Magazine very much, and I was especially pleased with the article "A Message to Young Mothers," by Mary M. Ellsworth. This message could apply to anyone. It is a message I need to take into my life. —Mrs. Helen Johnson Jerome, Idaho The recipes in the Magazine are really wonderful, and every one I have tried has been a success. —Phyllis Stewart Inglewood, California I have read and appreciated the Magazine for many years, but never so deeply as I have since my husband passed away. In my sorrow and bereavement, I have received much encouragement and have been greatly comforted so many times upon opening our Magazine and finding a poem or an article that semed to be written especially for me, so very consoling, faith promoting, and uplifting they were. —Evelyn M. Lundell Benjamin, Utah

DECEMBER 1963 VOLUME 50 NUMBER 12 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Content
Special Feature: 885 President Hugh B. Brown 887 President Nathan Eldon Tanner 890 Elder Thomas Spencer Monson Appointed to The Council of the Twelve 893 An Army of Good Samaritans Hugh B. Brown 899 The Relief Society Annual General Conference Hulda Parker 905 Season of Giving — The National Tuberculosis Association Fiction 907. Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 6 Rosa Lee Lloyd "82 = aig Near jo Far 902 Editorial: The 133d Semi-Annual Church Conference 904 Christmas Over the Years Vesta P. Crawford 906 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 960 Birthday Congratulations 913 Cutouts Tell aie Christmas Story 914 <A Time for Enchanted Christmas Trees 918 A Lovely Gift— Oriental Silk Panel Betty B. Huber 920 A Golden Candle for Christmas Ardelle West 921 Make Marzipan for Christmas Bertha Josuks 922 Home for the Holidays Jane S. Tibbals ana Hazel S. Cannon Lessons Grae RA 930 Theology — Stewardships; A Review Roy W. Doxey 938 ne Teacher Message — "For Unto Him That Receiveth...." Christine H. Robinson 940 Work Meeting — Planning and Preserving Traditions Important to the Family Virginia F. Cutler 942 Literature — Willa Cather, Lover of Life Briant S. Jacobs 948 Social Science — Church Courts Ariel S. Ballif an | Poetr 881 Song of Shepherds — Frontispiece Leslie Savage Clark Salute to Christmas, by Hazel Loomis, 886; The Need of the Name, by Christie Lund Coles, 889; Prayer, by Gladys Hesser Burnham, 892; Star-Wakened, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 898; Gifts of Gold, by Lela Foster Morris, 901; Color Scheme, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 905; Christmastime, by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 912; Old-Fashioned Thinking, by Beulah Huish Sadleir, 947; Astronaut, by Grace Barker Wilson, 955; Past Grownup Sight, by Ida Elaine James, 958.

 Published mainthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1963 by the Relief Society Generat Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt. Lake City 11, Utah; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be. Retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts 

President Hugh B. Brown | | | a S 7 | a! Own Friday morning, October 4, 1963, at the opening session of the 133d Semi-Annual Conference of the Church, President Hugh B. Brown, Second Counselor in the First Presidency, was sustained as First Counselor to President David O. McKay to fill the vacancy in the Quorum of the First Presidency caused by the sudden death of President Henry Dinwoodey Moyle, September 18, 1963. President Brown is well known and beloved throughout the Church. When he was appointed and sustained as a member of the Council of the Twelve at the April 1958 General Conference, Elder Harold B. Lee, in writing of Elder Brown's new appointment for The Relief Society Magazine, expressed the appreciation of many others also familiar with the great gifts and accomplishments of Elder Brown: "Seldom has there been a man whose vast service in the Church has affected the lives of so many for good, and the saints with one heart seemed to echo their acceptance of this eloquent preacher of righteousness to the high place to which he has been called." President Brown was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, October 26, 1883, the son of Homer M. And Lydia Jane Brown. In his middle teens he went to Canada with his parents. There, at the age of twenty-one, he was called upon a mission to Great Britain and was released in 1906. He served with distinction overseas in the First World War and returned home as a Major in the Canadian Army. He then took up the study of law and entered into the practice of his profession. In 1908 he married Zina Young Card, daughter of Charles Ora Card and Zina Young Card. Sister Brown's father was the founder of Cardston, Canada, and her mother was a daughter of Brigham Young. Her grandmother was the third General President of Relief Society. President and Sister Brown are parents of six lovely daughters and two sons, all living, except Hugh Card Brown who was killed in 1942 while serving in the Royal Air Force. There are twenty-five grandchildren, and ten great-grandchildren. In 1921 the family moved to Lethbridge, Alberta, and when the Lethbridge Stake was organized in November of that year, it being the third stake in Canada and the eighty-fourth stake in the Church, Elder Brown was made its president. In 1927 Elder Brown and his 885 DECEMBER 1963 family moved to Salt Lake City, and Elder Brown became a member of the Utah State Bar. In 1928 he became president of Granite Stake, where he presided until 1936. In 1937 Elder Brown was called to preside over the British Mission, and Sister Brown and five of the children went to England with him and remained there for three years. Upon his return from this mission Elder Brown became co-ordinator of the servicemen for the Church and a member of the Servicemen's General Committee. Again, in 1944, Elder Brown was called to preside over the British Mission. He returned to Utah in 1946 and joined the faculty of the Brigham Young University. In 1950 he returned to Canada as legal counsel for an oil company, and was later made president and manager of the Richland Oil Company, Ltd., in which capacity he was serving when called to be an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve in October 1953. After serving as a member of this Council until April 1958, Elder Brown became a member of the Council of the Twelve and served in that capacity until he was called to be a Counselor in the First Presidency, June 22, 1961, during the illness of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. On October 12, 1961, following the death of President Clark, President Brown was called to be Second Counselor in the Presidency of the Church. Relief Society women throughout the Church rejoice in this further great honor and responsibility which have come to President Brown as First Counselor in the Presidency of the Church. Sister Zina Young Card Brown, who has been the beloved helpmeet of President Brown for the fifty-five years of their marriage, has been a loyal. And faithful Relief Society woman and has advanced the cause of Relief Society in the mission Relief Societies over which she has presided. President Brown has always shown a great interest in Relief Society, and Relief Society members are enriched by the wise counsel he has given at Relief Society General Conferences in his addresses, one of which is printed in this issue of the Magazine. R,) eieak C= fr Ll ee ae | e to «4 hristmas Hazel Loomis Turn heart, turn And burn with stable light The spinning years, As hastening shepherds Walk with sturdy staffs The cold and cobbled hills, Bearing the warming gifts Of nightless song. 886 (Presiden Nathan Eldon Tanner, A» a Oy Elder Nathan Eldon Tanner, a member of the Council of the Twelve, was appointed and sustained as Second Counselor to President David O. McKay at the first session of the General Conference of the Church, October 4, 1963. He has been a General Authority since October 1960, when he became an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. In October 1962 he was sustained as a member of the Council of the Twelve. Having a rich heritage of religious training, spiritual insight and devotion, and a wide experience in both Church and civic: _ affairs, President Tanner brings to the highest council of the Church great ability and a humble, cooperative spirit. President Tanner was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, May 9, 1898, a son of Nathan William and Edna Brown Tanner. Shortly before his birth his parents migrated to Canada. His mother returned to Salt Lake City for the birth, and when the son was only six weeks old, made the return trip to Canada. After finishing nine grades of school in the small community of Etna, Alberta, President Tanner attended high school in Cardston, and later became a student at the Knight Academy in Raymond, and then prepared himself for a teaching career at the Calgary Normal School from which he was graduated in 1919. He taught school in Hill Spring, where he met another member of the faculty—Sarah Isabelle Merrill—_whom he married December 20, 1919. While living at Hill Spring, Elder Tanner served as a health officer and participated actively in community affairs and established a general store. In 1929 the family moved to Cardston and Elder Tanner became principal of the high school. In 1935 he was elected to the Alberta Legislature and became the speaker of that house. Later, he became minister of lands and mines in the provincial cabinet. In 1942 he was asked to serve as chairman of the Alberta Research Council and acted as commissioner of the Boy Scouts Association in 1946. He had faithfully served in scouting activities for many years, and was awarded the Silver Acorn and 887 a ab 4 rath # Re SSL the Silver Wolf awards. The Silver Acorn is the highest scouting award given in Canada. During the years 1952-1958 Elder Tanner was engaged in many industrial and commercial enterprises and became president of Merrill Petroleum Company and a director of the Toronto-Dominion Bank of Canada. His devoted service to the Church, since early manhood, has included positions as branch president, bishop, stake president, and mission president. At the time of his call to the First Presidency, he was a member of the Council of the Twelve and President of the Genealogical Society of the Church. President and Sister Tanner have five lovely daughters, all married and living in Canada. They have twenty-four grandchildren. The sisters of Relief Society join with Church members worldwide in appreciation and gratitude for the dynamic, dedicated leadership of President Tanner, and the inspiration, counsel, and testimony which he bears of the gospel message. Sister Tanner is an ideal wife, mother, grandmother, and homemaker, dearly loved by a large circle of friends, relatives, and associates. She has been active in the Auxiliaries of the Church and has served in many capacities in Relief Society, among them as a stake counselor in Calgary Stake. In addressing the saints following the announcement of his appointment to the First Presidency, President Tanner spoke of his desire for the faith and prayers of the members of the Church, and said, "I can humbly say, as did Nephi of old, that 'I will go and do the things which the Lord has commanded.' "' The Need of Christie Lund Coles The name of Christmas is a magic name, As are its kindred names known to our ear: Hallelujah! Shepherd lads who came Following the star, to see, to hear; The syllables of Bethlehem which fall In cadence like some long-loved, choice refrain; The wise men, angels, and the humble stall. Each stands a symbol of his birth again. For somewhere, deep inside each listening soul, Need of the names of Christmas reaches out For reassurance... Of the tree, the toll Of pealing bell and children's eager shout. Oh, Holy Night, on which the heavens smiled, How deep our need for the name of one small Child. 889 Elder Thomas Spencer Monson Elder Thomas Spencer Monson was appointed and sustained a member of the Council of the Twelve at the Friday morning session of the Semi-Annual Conference of the Church, October 4, 1963. This high position of responsibility and leadership has come to one of the youngest men to be so called in many years. Elder Monson is thirty-six years old. He is a humble man of much experience in Church work and in business and civic affairs. He radiates spirituality, humility, kindness. And a deep and pervading solicitude for all the Heavenly Father's children upon the earth. Elder Monson was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, a son of G. Spencer and Gladys Condie Monson. He is a graduate of West High School, and received his B. S. Degree in. Business at the University of Utah, and is a member of Alpha Kappa Psi, honorary business fraternity. He began his career at the Deseret News Press at an early age, and has held many positions of responsibility, including manager of the classified advertising department, sales manager of the Deseret News Press, assistant classified advertising manager of the 890 ma th aT — on o- — _— - et massed =a i casattl pe —_ eve: ie ie — ~~ _— = 4 ELDER THOMAS S. MONSON AND HIS FAMILY Loft to right: Ann, age nine; Thomas Lee, age twelve; Elder Thomas S. Monson; Sister Frances J. Monson. Front, center: Clark Spencer, age four. Newspaper Agency Corporation, and was manager of the Deseret News Press at the time of his call to the apostleship. A former member of the Utah Association of Sales Executives and the Salt Lake Advertising Club, he is a past president of the Printing Industry of Utah. Currently, he is a member of the Board of Directors of Printing Industry of America. Since boyhood Elder Monson has been active in the Church, and his service in all of these callings has been marked by inspiration, devotion, and a strong and steadfast testimony of the gospel. He has been a ward clerk, counselor in a ward bishopric, and, at the age of twenty-two, he became bishop of the Sixth-Seventh Ward of Temple View Stake. After five years in this calling, he was appointed second counselor in the Temple View Stake presidency. In March 1959 he was called to preside over the Canadian Mission. In this calling he was instrumental in bringing many new members into the Church and was an enthusiastic leader of missionaries and converts. His lovely wife, Frances Johnson Monson, directed the Relief Society organizations of the Canadian Mission with en- 891 DECEMBER 1963 thusiasm, and wisdom. The strength of her own strong testimony and understanding of the gospel greatly advanced the work of the Society. Elder and Sister Monson are the parents of three children: Thomas Lee, Ann Frances, and Clark Spencer. Upon his return from the Canadian Mission, Elder Monson became a member of the High Council of the Valley View Stake, and later was appointed an area supervisor of nine stake missions. His positions of leadership and responsibility at the time of his call to the apostleship included serving as a member of the Adult Task Committee of the Church Correlation Committee and as a member of the Priesthood Home Teaching Committee. Earlier in 1963 he served as a member of the Genealogical Conference Staff, with the duties of attending stake conferences and presenting the genealogical program of the Church. Relief Society sisters who have had the privilege of being associated with Elder Monson both in his work at the Deseret News Press, and in his Church assignments rejoice at the appointment of this helpful, kind, and spiritually minded leader. He is very approachable and inspires respect, confidence, and loyalty. The sisters who have served on the editorial and business staff of The Relief Society Magazine are grateful for the helpful counsel Elder Monson has given them through his position as an executive at the Deseret News Press. The General Board of Relief Society join with the world-wide sisterhood in expressing gratitude and joy for Elder Monson's call to the apostleship. At the time of his appointment to the apostleship, Elder Monson expressed his feelings with deep humility. ""Whether in Church or business," he said, "the sweetest blessing in all life is to feel the promptings of the Holy Spirit." He said that he had felt these promptings especially while serving as a bishop and as a mission president, being led to the doors of people who needed assistance. In pledging his loyalty and support of President McKay, Elder Monson said: 'My prayer is that I may always obey you and these my brethren. I will strive to be what you want me to be." Prayer Gladys Hesser Burnham 1 dim the light and climb the winding stair, | fold my hands and say a silent prayer For you and me and all the troubled world, Place in his hands my sorrow lightly furled. | know that with release my heart can cling To promises from God through Christ the King Of Kings. | ask and shall receive. My way Is lighted by the faith with which | pray. 892 An Arm V of Good Samaritans President Hugh B. Brown First Counselor in the First Presidency [Address Delivered at the'General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference October 2, 1963] My dear sisters and co-workers, I am subdued and humbled as I stand here today where my close personal friend and co-worker expected to stand, but who is now engaged elsewhere. The sudden passing of President Henry D. Moyle is a loss to the Church and to the world. I am sure all of us join with Sister Harold B. Lee in her beautiful prayer in extending to Sister Moyle and her family our love and sympathy. After the morning meeting of the First Presidency today, President McKay asked me if I would convey to the Presidency of the Relief Society and to this great Relief Society Conference his regrets that he was not able to be present. He sent to you his love, his blessing, and his congratulations on the great work you are accomplishing. May I pause here, sisters, to bear witness to you that President David O. McKay is a prophet, seer, and revelator. He is inspired by the spirit of the Lord and the will of the Lord is made known unto him. His great leadership in the Church, his wonderful influence in the world results from the fact that he is a prophet of God. I wanted you sisters to know that from one whose privilege it is to have daily association with him. Whenever we think of or meet with the Relief Societies of the Church, we think of love and loyalty, of mercy and service, of faith and charity. All these and many other virtues associated with Relief Society are exemplified by its members, and for this we are deeply grateful. And we think of the parable of the Good Samaritan, in which Jesus taught the lesson on religion in action. The Samaritan, according to the record, held no high office, wrote no book, was not widely known, but has been remembered through the centuries because he extended to a stranger a hand of love and assistance. He did not seek commendation for what he did; he did not publicize his action. The quiet, unpublicized work of the Relief Society reminds us of the Good Samaritan. In fact, this organization is an organized army of Good Samaritans, one quarter of a million strong. They work mainly in "no-man's land." That phrase may have a double meaning here today. In the army, no-man's land is that area between two opposing armies which neither side claims as its own. We think of you in no-man's land because no man could or would do the work that the Relief Societies do any more than he could do the work required of a mother. Relief Society sisters wear no uni- 893 DECEMBER 1963 forms, they have no insignia, but they are recognized because their lives conform to the truths they teach. Now that 'is not only a statement of fact, but is a challenge for the future. My mother was a Relief Society stake president in Western Canada. She traveled with horse and buggy in some very inclement weather. Thinking of her, I would like to read to you what it seems to me typifies the life of the average Relief Society officer, a life crammed with action, with responsibility and work. Some of you, most of you, I think, will not remember the days to which this refers, but some of us remember this. May I read a paragraph to you. Grandmother, on a winter's day, milked the cows, slopped the hogs, saddled the mule, and got the children off to school; did a washing, mopped the floors, washed the windows, and did some chores; cooked a dish of home-dried fruit, pressed her husband's Sunday suit, swept the parlor, made the bed, baked a dozen loaves of bread, split some firewood and lugged it in, enough to fill the kitchen bin; cleaned the lamps and put in oil, stewed some apples she thought would spoil, churned the butter, baked a cake,. Then exclaimed, 'For goodness sake, the calves have got out of the pen," and went out and chased them in again; gathered the eggs and locked the stable, back to the house and set the table, cooked a supper that was delicious, and afterward washed up all the dishes; fed the cat and sprinkled the clothes, mended a basketful of hose; then opened the organ and began to play "When You Come to the End of a Perfect Day." —Bennett Cerf). That reminds me so much of the life of the average Relief Society officer, teacher, worker. Your labors of love remind us of the sacred shrine of motherhood; in fact you are to the Church what mother is to the home. You go. To the bereaved, the unfortunate, the sick, the wounded; you go into the hospitals or wherever there is a call for help. Where there is frustration, disillusionment, sorrow, or bereavement— and these come to all of us at one time or another—the people always turn to you for comfort and re- 894 (The Laugh's On Me, pp. 176. 177. Lief, and you never fail them. Even they who must pay the price for folly or sin find refuge here in Relief Society, and are encouraged to try again and rely upon the divine law of repentance and the love and mercy of the Lord. Mothers minister to the needs of human beings from their prenatal to their immortal state. Neither birth nor death can break the cord of love which binds our lives to theirs. Without their tender care the home would lose its honored and hallowed place in the hearts and lives of men. The mother is the spirit of the home; she gives it fragrance, atmosphere, love, and life. And that's what the Relief Society gives to the Church. WHEREVER human beings live, whether in a palace or a cottage, there is universal homage paid to mothers; and wherever the Relief Society is organized, in hamlets, towns, or cities, they are engaged in a work comparable to that in which mothers are constantly engaged. You render service to all ages, in all seasons, and in most of the countries of the world today. Your services are always available, whether the call comes for layettes for the unborn, for burial clothes for the deceased, or for flowers and food for the bereaved, you are always there. Men may become rulers of nations, of empires, lead armies into battle, make laws, administer justice, write books, discover the secrets of the universe, release the power of the atom and partially control it; but the mothers of the world, God's agents of mercy wherever human life exists, are exerting an influence greater than all these can do. Mothers inspired the great men to whose memory we build monuments, and they put into their work the kind of spirit which gives them a saintliness, which is distinctively their own. Among your many other duties you Relief Society workers are training the young mothers of the future and that is a more important work than training the scholars, the statesmen, the military men of the future. We thank the Lord for the equal partnership that exists between the mothers and the fathers in the Church. I must not, however, much as we love you, spend more time on eulogy alone. We bring to you also a challenge and a charge, for there is great work to be done, great tasks lie ahead. Your job and ours is to teach our people to respect authority both in Church and State, to obey the law, and be made amenable to discipline. We must imbue them with a sense of loyalty and patriotism. Our people should not join in the demonstrations and marches in defiance of law and order, nor should they join organizations whose purpose is to undermine and put in question the integrity of our leaders, whether in Church or State. With a loss of respect for the laws of the land, there comes a corresponding loss of respect for the laws of God. Your job and ours is to educate the hearts of people. Teach them to have a discriminating sense of values, to enrich their personalities, live abundantly, and glorify their intelligence with the warmth and glow of love of God and fellow men. In other words, the head and heart must work together, and support each other. Someone has said, '""The education of the heart is the heart of education." THE greatest heart that ever beat was the educated heart of Jesus. And the greatest sermon ever preached appealed to the hearts more than the minds of his fortunate listeners. Because of that education of the heart and that appeal. To the hearts. Of _people, his divine message has been effective through the centuries. The apostle Paul's matchless chapter on charity and love came from an educated heart and a richly furnished mind. He said the eloquence of men and of angels without love is "... As sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal," that knowledge and faith that would AN ARMY OF GOOD SAMARITANS be sufficient to move mountains are nothing without love, and, furthermore, that giving and _ bestowing, though it be lavish and even sacrificial, if it lacks love, will profit nothing to the giver. Love is the most ennobling, the most beautiful, the most sacred of men's emotions, but, and this I would like to underline because of conditions as we find them in the world, it is necessary that we warn our people against the awful influence of love's counterfeit— lust and licentiousness, the most. Poisonous and debasing of all. Of Satan's allurements. 'These are made, unfortunately, to appear acceptable in some publications of the day which are found in the bookstores and the bookracks available to our youth. Let us teach them to be clean, to be pure, to be honorable and upright. If, for no other reason, than that they are going to have to live with history and with memory. Let us become progressively aware of and bring to fruition the spiritual equipment, the creative intellect, the motivating imagination, the enduring zest and vitality, the adventurous curiosity, and the aesthetic appreciation of our people. In all these areas we find the Relief Society women working, not alone in relieving the suffering of the world, but inspiring and lifting up and glonfying the beautiful in daily life as well as in literature and art. When the choir sang "Give Me Your Tired, Your Poor' — and may I pause here to compliment the Singing Mothers and their talented director. Sister Madsen and I were in school together sometime ago. She was, of course, much younger than I, but I discovered then that she is a genius. She goes to Idaho, California, or Arizona, even here in Salt Lake City, and is able to find women who respond to her magic and bring beauty, harmony, and inspiration to our conferences. Thank you, Sister Madsen, and thank you sisters from Arizona. 895 DECEMBER 1963 Burt when they sang "Give Me Your Tired, Your Poor," I turned to a little poem that Sister Brown handed me sometime ago from Sunshine Magazine. I turn to it now because at this time there is a concerted effort being made to undermine the very foundations of our country and our form of government and we must be on guard. Let us prize this America of ours and try to be worthy of our heritage. I like the verse of our patriotic anthem "Our Father's God to thee, author of liberty, to thee we sing.. Long may our land be bright with freedom's holy light. Protect us by thy might, great God our King." I thank God for that last line, "great God our King'— the only king we know. But this is what one wrote about America: God built a continent with glory and filled it with treasures untold. He bedecked it with soft, rolling prairies, and pillared it with thundering mountains. He studded it with sweetly flowing streams and mighty winding rivers. He graced it with deep shadowed forests, and filled it with song. But these treasures would have meant little if the myriads of people, the bravest of the races, had not come, each bearing a gift and a hope. They had the glow of adventure in their eyes, the glory of hope in their souls, and out of them was fashioned a _ nation, blessed with a purpose sublime. They called it America. Yes, they did bring us their tired and their poor and our ancestors were among them. Thank God for America. Now with respect to this atomic age, the dangers which we face and problems that he ahead, may I bring you a warning from a general in the army who saw clearly and spoke forcefully. He made the following statement: With the monstrous weapons man already has, humanity is in danger of being trapped in this world by its moral adolescence. Our knowledge of science has clearly outstripped our capacity to control it. (We have. Too many men of science; too few men of God.) We have grasped the mystery of the atom and rejected the Sermon on the Mount. Man is stumbling blindly through a spiritual darkness while toying with the precarious secrets of life and death. The world has achieved brilliance without wisdom, power without conscience. Ours is a world of 896 nuclear giants and ethical infants. We know more about war than we know about peace; more about killing than we know about living. This is our 20th Century's claim to distinction and progress. That's a serious indictment of the vaunted efforts of our great scientists. God help us to retain the spirit of the Sermon on the Mount while our scientists explore outer space. Mir. William Temple, formerly Archbishop of Canterbury, said: Purely scientific education must produce a generation adept at dealing with things, indifferently qualified to deal with people, and incapable of dealing with ideas. "We hope your knowledge — which is of the head — will be motivated by wisdom — which is of the heart. One is determined by what you know, the other by what you do with what you know. Surely out of the heart cometh the issues of life. While we enjoy and are inspired by our "Singing Mothers," many of our young people are saved by our "praying mothers." We should teach the youth of the Church how to pray. When the disciples heard Jesus pray, they said pleadingly, 'Lord, teach us to pray." When we teach our people to pray, "Our Father who art in heaven,'' we should impress upon them the responsibility which that salutation imposes, namely, that he is our Father and that we are his children, and, therefore, there is something of him in us. Let us seek to be worthy of that relationship. We are confronted today with a multitude of problems, many of them are soul-searching and tragic. The wreckage of divorce and broken homes is spreading into all the communities of our country, including our own. We may do our best to repair the damage, to reconstruct, to encourage, and try to get the unfortunate to begin again, but our greatest challenge is through education to prepare people to avoid these tragedies. The problem of birth control with voluntary barrenness is poisoning the very fountains of life and defying God's injunction to multiply and replenish the earth. Juvenile delinquency is rampant in the world. This is aided and abetted by men and women who fail to live up to the responsibilities of parenthood. We must teach them that liberty and license are not synonymous and that obedience to law is liberty. Some have thought that Relief Societies labor only in the background. I would like to tell the world as I observe the actions and activities of the Relief Societies allover the Church that the Relief Society sisters are in the vanguard of human progress. I would like to tell the brethren of the Church that the Relief Society sisters are blazing the trail, pointing the way and setting the pace. That is a real challenge. I should like to call your attention to a statement made by the apostle Paul. It is applicable although you are women and women ordinarily do not go to war. He refers to the kind of armor which will fit women as well as men, and without which neither women nor men can subdue the enemy we must meet. In Ephesians we read: For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand. Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness; And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace; Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. And take the helmet of salvation, and the ia of the Spirit, which is the word of od: Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints... (Ephesians 6:12-18). And now what are some of the rewards that are to come to you and to us if we can, like Paul, fight a good AN ARMY OF GOOD SAMARITANS fight, finish the course, and keep the faith? Here is what the Lord has promised to the faithful, sisters as well as holders of the Priesthood: Wherefore, all things are theirs, whether life or death, or things present, or things to come, all are theirs and they are Christ's, and Christ is God's. And they shall overcome all things.... These shall dwell in the presence of God and his Christ forever and ever. These are they whom he shall bring with him, when he shall come in the clouds of heaven to reign on the earth over his people. These are they who shall have part in the first resurrection. These are they who shall come forth in the resurrection of the just. These are they who are come unto Mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly place, the holiest of all. These are they who have come to an innumerable company of angels, to the general assembly and Church of Enoch, and of the Firstborn. These are they whose names are written in heaven, where God and Christ are the judge of all (D.&C. 76:59-60, 62-68). One of the duties that rests upon the brethren in the Council of Twelve and associated councils is to bear witness of Christ. Humbly, but fearlessly, I bear witness of him. He is the Christ, the Son of the living God, the Redeemer of the world. I know that better than I know anything else, and from the very center of my heart I say to you, Christ still lives, and though you may have many difficulties and problems to meet, though you may have sorrow, disappointment, and bereavement, remember his help is available. His ways are always right though sometimes we may not understand them. I like this closing verse: Sometime, when all life's lessons have been learned, And sun and stars forevermore have set, And things which our weak judgments here have spurned, The things o'er which we grieved with lashes wet, Will flash before us out of life's dark night, As stars shine most in deeper tints of blue; And we shall see how all God's plans are right, And how what seemed reproof was love most true. 897 DECEMBER 1963 And you shall shortly know that lengthened breath Is not the sweetest gift God sends His friend, And that, sometimes, the sable pall of death Conceals the fairest bloom His love can send. If we could push ajar the gates of life, And stand within and all God's workings see, We could interpret all this doubt and strife, And for each mystery could find a key. But not today. Then be content, poor heart; God's plans, like lilies pure and white, unfold. Wemust not tear the close-shut leaves apart— Time will reveal the calyxes of gold. And if, through patient toil, we reach the land Where tired feet, with sandals loosed, may rest, When we shall clearly see and understand, I think that we will say, "God knew the best." —May Riley Smith By the power and authority that is mine to bless, I bless you, my dear sisters, and all those to whom you may return when this conference is over. God bless our mothers and their associates in the Relief Society. I bless you that there may be peace and love and harmony in your homes. I bless you that you may influence your husbands, some of whom are inactive, and provoke them to good works. I bless you that you may have the courage and fortitude and faith to continue to the end. I bless you that as you leave this building today you may carry with you the influence of the Holy Spirit that is here yearningly pleading with all of us to "Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest." I leave this testimony and this blessing with you humbly, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. Dorothy J. Roberts Remembrance of a child is upon the world Echoing through the years from Bethlehem— The waiting, the carols, the bringing forth, The ointments of worship and of wonder. Now in the shadow of the waning hours, This un-pent devotion. Now when the ink of night Has blurred the sun in the winter-brief day, This springlike burgeoning within the heart This blossoming of mind... This rainbow fruit Of love bending the borrowed tree... This joining Of each to each by affection twined through The starry miles as tinsel through boughs. Frozen words are freed, fingers interlace, And loneliness is scrolled with jeweled light. Hands move across the loom of solitude and weave This caring into silvery lengths. Doors swing wide. Remembrance of a child is upon the world, A season of forgiveness, belief and wonder. 898 Star-wakened, the world again cradles The promise and the glory in its heart. The Relief Society Annual General Conference October 2 a nd 3,1963 Hulda Parker General Secretary-Treasurer "The frequently repeated comment— "It was the best conference ever!"— was uttered with sincerity and conviction by countless sisters representing the leadership of Relief Society from many parts of the world at the conclusion of the 1963 Relief Society Annual General Conference. Sessions of this great conference were conducted in the Tabernacle on Temple Square on Wednesday and Thursday, October 2 and 3. At the 9:30 a. M. Officers Meeting for stake and mission officers and board members, President Belle S. Spafford emphasized the purpose of the conference in her welcome to the sisters by stating, "... You are all here this morning motivated by the selfsame purposes, that of having your vision enlarged of the greatness of Relief Society and to receive instructions as to how you may better carry forward the work." As the proceedings of each day's sessions unfolded, those in attendance felt that the blessings of the Lord had so rested upon the participants that these far-reaching purposes were accomplished. Of particular interest to those in attendance at the opening session was the introduction of the Relief Society Advisors from the Council of the Twelve. Since the last Relief Society General Conference, in addition to President Joseph Fielding Smith, the First Presidency has appointed as Advisors to the Relief Society, Elder Harold B. Lee and Elder Marion G. Romney. President Spafford expressed gratitude for the wise counsel which comes to Relief Society from these Advisors and also appreciation for the great assistance received in the past from Elder Mark E. Petersen, a former Advisor who is now presiding over the West European Mission. Each of these Advisors addressed the conference— President Smith and Elder Lee in the Wednesday morning session and Elder Romney in the Thursday afternoon session. President Smith referred to the benevolent and charitable services of Relief Society since its humble beginning in the early days of the Church. He declared, "... We have seen this Society grow until it spreads over most of the civilized countries of the world. The good that has been accomplished [by it] in the care of the poor, care of the sick and the afflicted, those who are in physical, mental, or spiritual need, will never correctly be known... It is clear to see that without this wonderful organization The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints never could have been completely organized."' Elder Lee discussed responsibilities of mothers toward their homes and families, emphasizing the importance 899 DECEMBER 1963 of their teaching their children the proper way of life as found in the revealed gospel of Jesus Christ. Also a part of the opening session were the informative and interesting analysis of the Annual Report of Relief Society by President Spafford and her statement of Official Instructions related to the work of Relief Society. The roll call of stake and mission officers in attendance revealed representation from 367 stake and 17 mission organizations, with a total attendance of 3,464. Of historic significance was the attendance at the conference of sisters from such far reaches of the Church as Southern Australia, Samoa, Brazil, Uruguay, Peru, Mexico, Scotland, England, France, and Norway. Their understanding of the conference was made possible by simultaneous interpretation through earphones in the Spanish and German languages and through the assistance of individual interpreters in some sessions in these and other languages. Regardless of nationality or tongue, the spirit and messages of the conference penetrated every heart. Music for the opening session was impressively rendered by 301 Singing Mothers from the Layton Stake directed by Sister Loretta P. Johnson. The prelude music and organ accompaniment were furnished by Dr. Frank W. Asper. The 2:00 P. M. Session on Wednesday was a general session for Relief Society members and the general public. President Hugh B. Brown of the First Presidency, as the principal speaker in this session, paid tribute to the way in which both the Relief Society, with relation to the Church, and the mother, with relation to the home, minister to the needs of human beings. He also challenged leaders and mothers "to teach our people to respect authority both in Church and State, to obey the law, and be made amenable to discipline." He concluded his inspiring and powerful message by 900 blessing the sisters in attendance and all those to whom they would return when the conference was over. He blessed the Relief Society sisters with courage, fortitude, and faith to continue to the end. The three members of the Relief Society General Presidency also addressed this session. President Spafford spoke on the divinity within Relief Society. Counselor Marianne C. Sharp stressed the need of self-confidence in effective leadership. Counselor Louise W. Madsen reiterated the divine commission of Relief Society as given by the Prophet Joseph Smith "not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls."' Sister Edith P. Backman, as a representative of the General Board, discussed the importance of charity being exemplified in the lives of Relief Society members. A combined Singing Mothers chorus of approximately 400 singers from the Mesa-Phoenix area provided inspiring music for this session. The chorus was directed by Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen with Dr. Alexander Schreiner at the organ. The sisters participating in this chorus were from the Mesa, Mesa South, Maricopa, East Mesa, Phoenix, Phoenix North, East Phoenix, Phoenix West, and Scottsdale Stakes. Approximately 3,000 stake and mission leaders enjoyed the beautiful appointments in the Relief Society building and were warmly greeted by General Board members at a reception on Wednesday evening. The vision of Relief Society leaders relative to the current year's courses of study was enlarged Thursday morning through dramatic presentations given in the Tabernacle. The presentation "Ye Are on the Lord's Errand" portrayed one of the messages contained in the new season's theology course, a continued study of the Doctrine and Covenants. Truths found in the 1963-64 visiting teacher messages were depicted in the dramatization "Truths to Live By — Jewels of THE RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE Strength." A back-glance of the sixyear course on America's Literature which will be concluded with the 1963-64 season was given in the presentation "Album of America's Literature." The second year of the social science course on Divine Law and Church Government was featured with the presentation 'Mothers of Men." At 1:00 p. M. Stake and mission officers heard a stirring message by Elder Marion G. Romney on the text, "Train up a child in the way he should go; and when he is old, he will not depart from it"? (Proverbs 22:6). He declared that "Both our homes and our society will be put in order when and only when, by precept and example, parents teach and inspire in their children a willing resolution to live the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ." In the 2:00 p. M. Session for stake and mission district presidences, Bishop John H. Vandenberg, Presiding Bishop of the Church, outlined objectives of the Church Welfare Program, saying that while the immediate objective is to render assistance to those in need, the ultimate objective is "to help people to help themselves." Through impressive presentations, demonstrations, symposiums, and talks, leadership helps and specific instructions on the respective courses of study were given in separate departmental sessions for presidencies, Magazine representatives, and class leaders. From 1:15 to 4:00 P. M. Training and instruction sessions were conducted for secretary-treasurers, music leaders, and work meeting leaders. In this latter department a large and impressive display of beautifully made articles demonstrated the homemaking arts and skills taught in Relief Society work meetings. Lela Foster Morris On a sacred night they came to Bethlehem, Quiet little town so blessed, For there in a manger on the hay The infant Jesus lay at rest. Shepherds came to worship him, Groups of heaven's angels sang, "Glory to God in the highest, Peace on earth,"' their voices rang. Holy light shone on the scene, The patient oxen did not stir; The wise men knelt with gifts of gold, Rarest frankincense and myrrh. At last they found the Prince of Peace Their treasured offerings to bring, To the Babe in the lowly manger, To Christ the Lord our King. All may bring precious gifts to him, Kind deeds to the poor and the old, To little children who need much love — These are gifts of gold. 901 902 VOLUME 50 DECEMBER 1963 ae he t lr ° p t, ane | 2 on f@e pes -— -) é ss et f mMeoroamr pp "Tae 133d Semi-Annual Conference of the Church was held in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, October 4th, 5th, and 6th, 1963, with the beloved President David O. McKay, now in his ninety-first year, presiding at all the general sessions and the Priesthood meeting. Under radiant autumn skies, the saints from many nations assembled once more to be instructed, inspired, comforted, and to rejoice together in the blessings of the gospel. This fall the conference proceedings received the widest dissemination in the history of the Church, being carried by more than 160 television stations in Canada and the United States, including Hawaii, and by approximately thirty radio stations. WRUL, the Church short-wave station in New York, broadcast the conference to the world in English and Spanish, and, for the first time, in German and Portuguese. The Relief Society Singing Mothers from the Mesa-Phoenix area presented the music for both sessions of conference on Friday, October 4th, and their lovely voices, under the direction of Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society, carried much richness of tone and great unity of presentation. The saints were saddened at the beginning of conference to see the vacant chair of President Henry D. Moyle, First Counselor to President David O. McKay, who passed away suddenly on September 18th. President Hugh B. Brown, Second Counselor in the First Presidency was sustained as First Counselor, and Elder Nathan Eldon Tanner of the Council of the Twelve was sustained as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. Elder Thomas S. Monson, former President of the Canadian Mission, and a member of the Adult Correlation Committee, was appointed to the Council of the Twelve. Several of the General Authorities were not in attendance at the conference. President Levi Edgar Young and President Milton R. Hunter of the First Council of Seventy were ill; others were away presiding over missions: President Theodore M. Burton of the European Mission; President Bruce R. McConkie of the Australian Mission; President Marion D. Hanks of the British Mission; and President A. Theodore Tuttle of the South American Mission. In his opening address, President McKay spoke of the Heavenly Father's concern for his children, and the gift of free agency as the greatest blessing given to mortal beings: Anna B. Hart Pearle M. Olsen Edith S. Elliott €lsa T. Peterson' Florence J. Madsen Fanny S. Kienitz Leone: G. Layton Elizabeth B.. Winters Blanche 8. Stoddard LaRue H. Rosell Evon W. Peterson Jennie R. Scott peter pone Aleine M. Young Alice L. Wilkinson Josie B. Bay LaPriel: S. Bunker Alberta H. Christensen Irene W. Buehner Mildred B. Eyring Irene C. Lloyd Charlotte A. Larsen. Hazel S. Cannon Edith P. Backman Hazel S. Love Winniefred S. Manwaring. ~ Fawn H. Sharp Elna P. Haymond Celestia J. Taylor Mary R. Young Anne R. Gledhill Mary V. Cameron Belva Barlow Afton W. Hunt Zola J. McGhie Wealtha S. Mendenhall Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Freedom of speech, freedom of action with boundaries that do not infringe upon the liberty of others, are man's inherent right— divine gifts essential to human dignity and human happiness.... Generally, there is in man a divinity which strives to push him onward and upward. We believe that this power within him is the spirit that comes from God. Present Hugh B. Brown, after expressing the attitude of the Church on the matter of civil rights, declared: We believe that all men are the children of the same God, and that it is a moral evil for any person or group of persons to deny any human being the right to gainful employment, to full educational opportunity, and to every privilege of citizenship, Just as it is a moral evil to deny him the right to worship according to the dictates of his own conscience. President Brown then testified eloquently of the divine mission of the Savior, saying, ""We bear humble testimony... That he will return and reign personally upon the earth." F: esipent Tanner asked for the faith and prayers of the saints to be with him in his new calling: I pledge with you again that my life and all that I have will be completely devoted to the service of my Maker, and to my fellow men, always with a prayer in my heart that he will give me wisdom and knowledge, courage and strength and inspiration and determination and ability to keep his commandments and serve in a way that will be acceptable to him. I wish to bear my testimony that I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ who gave his life for you and me At the close of the conference, President McKay left his blessing with the saints: This has been a great conference. Great messages and glorious singing have made it so. The responsibility with us now is to carry the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ into our homes be true to every covenant. Our homes are the seed beds of faith in Christ our Lord. In his name I bless the members of the Priesthood, the entire membership of the Church in all countries.... 903 CWuttinasOue_the Year In this season of good will and spiritual blessings, let us treasure the love and the traditions that bind family members together in purpose and protection as uplifted and as steadfast as the evergreen trees, a devotion as warm and glowing as the star atop the Christmas tree - symbolic of the Star of Bethlehem. How tender and lasting are the memories of the family circle, a circle forever unbroken in eternal covenants, though time and events may change the segments of the circle and cast into many molds the individual links. In some darkness or trouble of the middle years, there comes to one who remembers an early Christmas, a great illumination of the verities of life - of promises given or blessings delayed. Perhaps a grandfather will tell of a Christmas in the lonely hills when the only gift for the children was a newborn lamb brought in from the stable, as small and watchful as those lambs which lay in shadows of the Palestinian hills when the shepherds heard a glorious new anthem from the heavens. Perhaps the father in the home, who has blessed his children with the light of gospel teachings, will sit near the Christmas tree, by the lighted fire on Christmas Eve, and explain to his family that Jesus came not unto one nation alone, but his glory shone also upon the American Continent '' and he took their little children one by one and blessed them, and prayed unto the Father for them. And he spake unto the multitude, and said unto them: Behold your little ones."' In the after years, many gifts will be remembered - the doll whose hair seemed to be pure gold, the little bottle of perfume, fragrant as frankincense; the little pear! Ring, the workbasket, the yellow camel made of hard candy, small gifts, but rich with symbolism of love and thoughtfulness, of anticipation and surprise, and lasting luster. Yet the long-remembered gifts of Christmas - the portraits that will never pass away - are the evidences of spiritual unity in the earth family - some day to become a heavenly family. The spiritual evidences may be slight and apparently evanescent, but they will stay forever upon the indelible parchment of the mind and spirit - the tear that fell upon the grandmother's cheek when someone spoke of Christmases to come, the mother's thin and fragile hand that paused uplifted as she peeled a Christmas orange, the bowed head of a little girl buttoning a dress on a doll. Such music as the Christmas hymns breaking across the night may long be a comfort and a blessing in the years to come. -~V. P. C. 904 Christmas Seals The National Tuberculosis Association A MOTHER, more than anyone, must be aware of seasons and the changes they bring, as she tries to guard the health of her loved ones. One of the busiest times for a mother is the "season of giving," the Christmas season. This time of year, people everywhere are more aware than usual of the needs of others, and are ready to give to others. In the "season of giving" the tuberculosis associations, with their Christmas Seals, offer all of us the opportunity to give to others—as mothers do—the gift of better health, perhaps even the gift of prolonged life. What's more, the Christmas Seal funds collected during this "season of giving" continue to give all year long, through research, health education, testing to uncover hidden tuberculosis, and other respiratory diseases. When a mother puts warm winter clothing on her children, and places Christmas Seals on her mail, she has helped safeguard not only the present health of her children but also their future health. Other children suffering from asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia, or influenza, and other respiratory diseases will benefit from the work of the small Christmas Seals her hands place on the gaily-colored Christmas packages and envelopes. By using Christmas Seals on all their mail during this 1963 SEASON OF GIVING, mothers everywhere will share with pride in the progress achieved, and in the hope that TB may soon be stamped out and all respiratory diseases brought under control. Color Scheme Eva Willes Wangsgaard Silver the clouds in the cobalt sky, Sapphire the lake's cool sheen, Jade in the rushes and meadow reeds, Silver and blue and green. Silver the snow on the mountain peaks, Indigo shadowed through, Emerald ice marks the waterfall, Silver and green and blue. 905 Mrs. KATHERINE B. OETTINGER, chief of the Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C., reported that in 1961, the year in which the most recent statistics are available, no State in the U. S. Had as low a death rate among infants as did the Netherlands and Sweden. The lowest rate in the United States was in Utah, twenty and three tenths per one thousand live births. Mrs. HELEN C. SCHREIBER, Goldendale, Washington, and Mrs. Marian Valentine, Tevares, Florida, won special fellowships for achievement at a National Home Demonstration Agents Convention held in Salt Lake City in September and attended by eight hundred women. This program is the "country women's college," said one attendant. Mrs. Schreiber will use her award to study programs in Indiana and Missouri to help young married couples in home management—a great need in our country, it seems. Mrs. Valentine will study marketing and management as related to consumer information. Miss SurE ANN GODDERIDGE, of Smithfield, Utah, whose father raises Holstein cattle, and who 906 Ramona W. Cannon herself, drives a tractor and drinks three glasses of milk a day, was chosen American Dairy Princess in Miami, Florida, in September. She will probably visit forty States and several foreign countries during her year's reign. Her attractive smile and _ healthy, wholesome look are pleasant characteristics. BARBARA WaArD is a_ distinguished British economist who has spent much time in India, helping with the economic problems in two hundred and twenty thousand major community centers, many of them centering around agriculture. Having recently returned from India, she says the improvement in economic conditions in the villages, after three years, is most impressive. GLADYS ERICKSON, a reporter for Chicago's American, has been honored by King Paul of Greece with the Golden Cross of the Order of Efpoiia for her excellent published articles on Greece. These have made Greece better known, it was announced, to the world, and to America in particular. She has promoted good relations between Americans and Greeks and has helped to strengthen those relations. of the WIND Rosa Lee Lloyd CHAPTER 6 Synopsis: Luana Harrington, her husband Ben, his mother Tutu, and the five children live on a pineapple plantation on the island of Maui. Emma Lu, the eldest, has recently returned from San Francisco, where she graduated as a nurse and became engaged to a Sherman Grant. Margaret Lester, Luana's sister-in-law, who lives in San Francisco, is visiting with the Harringtons. She is an artist and plans to enter an art contest in which Luana is also interested. They plan to search for Bo, a twin, who has run away. Tutu put her knitting in the basket and rose from the table. "Let us have luncheon before the search," she said, quietly. "But, Mother!" Ben exclaimed. "None of us feels like eating. Make some sandwiches. We'll take them with us."' Tutu walked to the window and stood there for a moment, looking down the path that led to the highway. "ll help you, Mama," Emma Lu offered, as Luana took buns from the cupboard for sandwiches. "Shall I get a jug for punch? It's such a hot day." Tutu turned from the window. Her blue eyes were twinkling. "That won't be necessary," she said, pointing toward the path. "Look! There comes our little Bo. Home again. I thought he would be home by lunchtime. Dinnertime for sure." Luana dropped the buns and ran to the window with the others. Philip slapped Emma Lu's shoulder. "T'll be your monkey's uncle!"' he said. '"He's coming home on his own power!"' A sob caught in Luana's throat, as she watched Bo's lonely, dejected little figure trudging up the path. She glanced quickly at Ben. His mouth was grim and unrelenting. She reached for his hand but his fists were clenched. "Take it easy, Sergeant," she coaxed. "It took courage for him to come back so soon. Especially, when he knows he has to apologize to his classmates this afternoon."' Tutu, standing close by, put her hand on his shoulder. "TI remember when you ran away, Ben," she told him. "You were twelve, I think. You were angry because your father would not permit you to have a canoe of your own until you were fourteen." 907 DECEMBER 1963 Her voice was as gentle as a lullaby. ''I remember, too, how understanding and forgiving your father was when you came home before dark. He treated you like the prodigal son. He ran to meet you and kissed you." A muscle jerked in Ben's cheek. The lines around his mouth relaxed. "The little fellow looks tired," he said, with a catch in his voice. He stepped quickly to the door and opened it wide. "Aloha!" he called. '"'You're in time for lunch. We're glad to see you, son." Benjy ran past them all and grabbed his brother in both arms. "We'll have San _ Francisco hamburger!" he yelled. Bo stood still, looking at his family. A sheepish grin tipped the corners of his mouth, but Luana could see the effort he was making not to let the tears break through. He was different from Benjy. He kept his tears inside, where no one could see them. "Aloha!" he said, lifting his hand. Luana thought she had never known a little word to mean so much. It said he was sorry he had caused them worry; it told them he had found the great big world outside his home was not so fascinating as he had hoped; and it said he loved them all very, very much, even though he didn't know how to say it the way Benjy did. Soon there was food on the table — bowls of rice and poi; coconut milk and hot chocolate; thick slices of tuna fish from the 908 lagoon, and fresh pineapple cut through the middle and heaped with grapes. There was homemade bread for those who wanted it. And a big, round carton of cheese. "Try the cheese, Aunt Margaret,' Emma _ Lu = suggested. "Tutu gets it from a dairy ranch high in the mountains of Molokai." Luana smiled, as she watched Margaret take some cheese. She knew Emma Lu was curious to know if Margaret felt certain that food from Molokai was safe to use. "It's very good," she said, eating it with her pineapple and grapes. Ben leaned back in his chair, folding his arms across his chest. His eyes caressed his twin boys. "It's your birthday Saturday," he said. "Your thirteenth birthday. That is a big day." "We will have a party, of course," Luana said. "Shall we have a luau?" Ben pursed his lips. "How would you like a picnic? The kind Queen Liliuokalani went on when she was a little girl?" "A picnic!" Benjy yelled. "Welakahao!"' Bo's eyes perked up. "Boy!" he breathed. "TI like a picnic better than a luau on birthdays." Luana noticed that Tutu was pleased. It was she who had told them how Queen Liliuokalani had liked the picnics that had been introduced to the Hawaiians. "What is your picnic like?' Margaret questioned Bo. "What makes it so special?" "We take food up a valley where there are big hau trees with long loopy branches. We hide in the branches and play games. Emma Lu should take Toki — he would have fun!" "Then we have a ti-leaf slide down a hill,"' Benjy said. Ben laughed. '"Let's not tell Aunt Margaret everything," he said. "She'll find out when we get there." "She sure will,"' Phil said, winking at Emma Lu. "Better take plenty of soap, Aunt Margaret." "And some rubber pillows," Tutu added, her lips quirking. After luncheon Ben went to school with the boys. Emma Lu decided to visit with Millie Togo and her new baby. She left the house with Toki perched on her shoulder. "You must rest, Tutu,"' Luana said. "Remember Dr. Hartford told you that you must rest every day." Tutu smiled. 'I will rest, Luana," she said, "'but call me when Pixie comes from school. I want her to try her new sweater. She needs to wear something bright and gay. She has been moody, lately." "T know," Luana admitted, but she forced a smile as she looked at Margaret. 'Would you like to go through a pineapple cannery this afternoon?" she asked. "T'd love it!" Margaret answered. "But can we go to an art shop first? I need some supplies." "Why, sure!" Luana agreed. "We have some fine shops in KISS OF THE WIND Maui — all kinds. I'll take you to meet a very good art dealer — Mr. Okamura. We'll go there first — then to the cannery." An hour later Luana and Margaret were at the pineapple cannery. "Ben belongs to this association,' she explained, as_ they parked the car and walked toward the large white building. 'They take our entire crop. Most of our friends who owned plantations have sold out to the big companies, but Ben still holds out as an independent producer." "T know it's a big industry over here," Margaret said, "along with sugar." "Pineapple is the bigger," Luana said. ''When you hear the words cane sugar you think of other places in the world besides Hawaii, but when you hear the word pineapple, you think only of the Hawaiian Islands. It is as Hawaiian as the ukelele, the hula, or the surf-board. Here we are — follow this crowd of visitors with the guide." Margaret's eyes were luminous, as she entered the luxurious white lobby decorated with murals of "Spine" life in all its stages from cuttings to fruit. The guide told them to stop at the large attractive containers with shiny chrome tops and help themselves to glasses of the luscious juice. Luana saw Margaret watching the girl guides in their spotless white uniforms. "The prettiest girls in the world work here," she told her. 909 DECEMBER 1963 "Wait until you see them at the machines."' Minutes later they were fascinated, as they watched the machines automatically peel, slice, and core the pines. "Look at those golden circles!" Margaret exclaimed, as the pineapple slices cascaded down the chute, then separated into two streams of fruit. Girls in long rows, dressed in white uniforms and caps and long white rubber gloves, trimmed off the imperfections and sorted the slices according to size. As they walked from one part of the factory to another, Margaret was continually surprised. "No part of the pine is wasted," the guide told them. "This is where we can the tidbits that didn't form perfect circles. Over here, the cores are pressed into juice. The hard, tough skins are pressed to squeeze out pine sugar in syrup form." The guide flashed her white smile. "What's left of a pine after that,' she said, "is dehydrated and made into pine bran for livestock. Every time you have a soft drink or a piece of candy, remember that the citric acid in it is probably a by-product of pines. And remember, too," she smiled again, "about eighty per cent of the world's pineapple is packed in Hawaii." Miargaret gazed in wonder as she saw the colorful cans zipping along the conveyor belt. "Like watching the rainbow," she said, "fon a scenic railway." "Hach mechanical labeler wraps 910 and fastens the labels around the cans at the rate of a thousand a minute," the guide explained. When they reached the lobby on the return trip, they had another drink of the fresh juice. "Whenever I taste pineapple again," Margaret said, gratefully, "TI will think of the intelligent effort it took to produce it." "That's right," Luana agreed. "We would appreciate everything more, if we took time to realize that some dedicated persons gave years of effort to invent machines such as we saw today. And we should remember how men of vision nurtured the pineapples from little scrubs, until they became the luscious fruit we have today. Think of thousands of men like Ben, and his father before him, who knew how to plant and tend the pines, and when to pick them at just the right time for the canneries. It is so wonderfully inspiring. I am so glad to be a part of all this." "You have such a good life," Margaret murmured. "Ben and the — children. And sweet Tutu. What more can you ask for?" "That is right," Luana answered, humbly. ''What more can I ask for?" She bit her lip. How could she tell Margaret that her family needed so many things right now she hardly knew which way to turn. Ben needed new equipment for the plantation. Mike Togo should have a raise. He was such a valuable foreman they could not afford to lose him to the corporation. But she could not tell Margaret these things. It would sound as if she was complaining, and she knew better than to do that. Working and praying were the only answers. That was the reason she had given every spare moment day and night to complete her painting for the contest. She had to win it, she thought, with a little prayer. She just had to! It was nearly five o'clock when they arrived home, almost dinnertime. The sky in the west was flaming coral and amber. Margaret stayed in the garden to watch the glorious coloring but Luana hurried in to prepare dinner. As she went through the bamboo curtains on the lanai, she heard Pixie weeping. She was standing in the middle of the room with her head bent. Her face was covered with her hands, and her back was toward Luana. Tutu was seated at the little work table. The bright blue sweater she had knit for Pixie was in a heap at her feet. "But, Tutu," Pixie sobbed. "I only did it to make myself pretty. I wanted... Tommy Bryan to look at me the way he looks at Lissa Pyke. She has gorgeous blond hair...." Her voice faltered, "... And her teeth are pretty." Luana hurried to her and cradled her in her arms. "My baby," she crooned, "you are pretty and so sweet and precious." Pixie lifted her head. Luana stepped back, gazing at her in stark amazement. Pixie's hair KISS OF THE WIND had been bleached to a horrible brassy color. "Oh, no!" Luana gasped. Pixie, how could you!"' "It's awful, Mama. I know it's awful. But Kit and I thought it would come out like it said on the bottle — honey-blond." Her face puckered into tears. '"That's what I wanted to be, Mama. A honey-blond."' "And it turned out orange," Tutu murmured, sadly. "Bright orange!" Luana echoed. ''What shall we do?" "Look, Mama." Pixie wrapped a scarf around her head. 'This will cover it until it grows out. How long will that take?" *"About six months," Luana an- "Oh, swered. "Maybe if we shaved your head." "No!" Pixie moaned. "I wish I could die!" "You would still have the orange hair," Tutu said. ''What would Tommy Bryan say when he saw you lying there with that orange hair? I think a real, live Pixie, with her own brown hair could win his love more easily." Pixie's blue eyes pled with her Mother. "Help me, Mama. I don't want Daddy to see my hair. I know I shouldn't have done mH 2" "Anybody home?" Ben called from the doorway. He stared at Pixie. An angry flush came up under his tan. Luana drew in her breath. "Ben," she said, "'Pixie made a mistake. She is very sorry." "Go to your room," he said to Pixie. "I'll talk to you later." (To be continued) 911 CAMERA CLIX. NEW YORK CITY. NEW YORK CUTOUTS TELL THE One of the special delights of the Christmas season is the preparation for the CHRISTMAS STORY long-to-be-remembered December 25th. Let the children help to decorate the outside of the house, the inside of the house, the Christmas tree, and the Christmas table. A good supply of medium heavy art paper in holiday colors, some simple designs of bells and trees that mother can help supply, and bright pictures cut from last year's Christmas cards or from current magazines will provide the materials. Sequins, little odd pearls or stones from discarded jewelry, even bright buttons (gold or silver) can be fashioned into glitter and glow to decorate the paper trees and the paper bells. These trimmings can be attached with glue or even stitched with thread. Let the children make paper chains, the linked kind, cut in wide or narrow strips and glued together to make chains of solid color or alternating red and gold, or red and green. A mother and her children will experience a great joy and make lasting memories as they cut and paste and design the Christmas decorations. 913 A Time for GELLILA Ohailuas Yous For many years, Christmas in Salt Lake City, Utah, has been characterized by attractive decorations in the small shops and in the department stores. Of particular interest for their original design and unusual trimmings have been the Christmas trees in the "Aisle of Enchanted Christmas Trees" in TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL Zion's Co-operative Mercantile Institution, a pioneer store founded by Brigham Young. The selection of Christmas trees pictured here is presented through the courtesy of Harold H. Bennett, Executive President of Z. C. M. I. This unusual "tree" is a modernized design GLEAM OF COLOR using a wire and metal frame and representDESTON BY GERTRUDE GrAUSER ing impressionistically the form of a woman. Note the head and decorated hair, the arms and stylized feet. The design is made of yarn balls and gaily trimmed blocks in a multiplicity of bright colors. The tablecloth and the table decorations are arranged to harmonize with the tree, and the bright display of gifts at the left completes the picture. 914 THE CHRISTMAS HOME — INSIDE AND OUT DANISH This design may be made from a wooden frame, with the "branches" either painted or carefully wrapped with MODERN gold, silver, or colored foil. Various kinds of candles are pesicN BY attached to the frame and give a decorative touch to the MIKE ROSS simplicity of the angles of the tree. Weeet age - ont 22 * % ae ' This unusually beautiful and original ChristTIERS OF GOLD mas tree design is particularly effective in the corner of a room. The tiers are three- °°"S™ °% MEEMUT REGNKER layered, the first being made from gilt balls, the second from twigs of greenery, and the third from small electric candles. The layers are connected by fine, strong wire, and the whole design is suspended from the ceiling. Many variations are suggested by this arrangement: numerous single colors offer a wide selection, and color combinations are unlimited—the design would be lovely in blue or rose; instead of the layer of greenery, decorative chains or ropes of tinsel might be used; the base for the tiers could be wreaths or styrofoam circles. DECEMBER 1963 Here a beautiful tapered, tall tree is comWHITE GRANDEUR pletely covered with white cotton wool to resemble the soft lightness of freshly fallen snow. Large blue bells and red lights accentuate the white grandeur of the tree in a design of unusual effectiveness. DESIGN BY PEGGY CORNIA The trunk of this tree may be a long dowel TREE OF WRE ATHS rod, a round curtain rod, a broomstick, or other strong round rod. The green wreaths "~~~ °" "St SrAv8URN are arranged in graduated sizes from top to bottom, and are attached to the center rod with fine gilt wire. Plastic balls decorate the tree. A variation of this design might be made by using small artificial fruits as the decorative features. THE CHRISTMAS HOME — INSIDE AND OUT " AND THE ANGELS SANG" Four large oval frames in gold, with a red stripe form the structure of this tree. Each frame is decorated with evergreen boughs lightly tip-sprayed with gold. The lights are lovely hanging pendants. The singing figurines are clad in red robes. A smaller basic tree could be made with embroidery hoops, wreaths, or other circular or oval forms wired together. DESIGN BY GERTRUDE GLAUSER This lovely tree is sprayed in mauve "IT'S FOR THE BIRDS" tones, with a light sifting of snow on the branches. It is decorated with blue balls, small white lights, and a few pink lights. Yellow plastic canaries may be seen on the branches of the tree, and golden bird cages, some of them containing canaries, hang from the branches. Many variations are suggested by this unusual tree—variations in color scheme, figurines, and color and shape of lights. DESGIN BY HARRIET DAVIS 917 A Lovely Gift (yumi! Yoh in Snowflake Design Betty B. Huber Don'r let a meager budget dwarf your creativity. There is always colored tissue paper. With it and rubber cement glue you can create a most interesting hanging. Purchase a lovely piece of silk, either a soft beige or white. Then decide on the width and length you wish the panel to be. I hand hemmed the sides one inch wide, then machine stitched the top and bottom hems for the rods to slide through. I obtained curtain rods for hanging the panel. Select rods with ornate knobs. You will need two rods, one for the top and one for the bottom. To the rod at the top, attach gold cording to hang it to the wall. These panels are attractive hung in pairs, or singly, perhaps to hang over a console. Lovely patterns and designs emerge from circles, squares, petals, and cutouts. The base forms couldn't be simpler, but layering and overlapping make new arcs and more intense colorations. For delicate effect use the snowflakes singly, or use overlapping in different colors for the same design. Use two colors when cutting out the same design. Do not make the snowflakes too large. With small leftover pieces, add tiny flakes. If you desire double or triple snowflakes, glue the back of each one, placing it on top of the next desired color, let dry. Next glue the back of the last snowflake and gently place it on the silk. Be sure all corners and edges are covered with glue. I found using my finger to spread the glue the best instrument. To work on an old piece of sheeting tacked to a board makes a good work piece. After each flake is glued, quickly pull it from the sheeting. The glue dries quickly and clear. To make sunbursts, stars, rosettes, and even strips of shaded colors running diagonally overlapping one another is attractive. Circles made of strips can be done in the same way. Squares added on circles or vice versa are interesting. The more intricate the designs, the more attractive your panel will be. To make a rosette, for instance: Take 3 or 4 squares of tissue paper each a different color. Fold diagonally, making a triangle. Fold in half, then again and then again. You will have a cone. Now draw scallops along the folded edges or simply cut free style with your scissors. Dotted lines on drawing indicate where you should cut. The shaded portion will be the rosette. Glue the roses down one at a time on the top of each other. Note the new color you have made in the middle. Away _ open edges TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL It is a good idea to experiment on regular white tissue wrapping paper before you will want to create the lovely designs from colored paper. Most hobby shops sell the tissue paper in beautiful shades of magenta, turquoise, blue, green, red, orange, yellow, lavender, and other colors. We have all had the experience of creating snowflakes while in school, especially in the wintertime. You will find your children will love to join in and, before you know it, you will have become an artist with tissue paper. A Golden Candle for Christmas Ardelle West This tall and radiant candle is made from painted or spray-painted tin cans in graduated sizes, joined together, and decorated with odds and ends of jewelry—colored stones and rhinestones. The medallions are made of lace and they are glued to the candle. Step 1. Use a large can for the base, perhaps a juice can. Do not empty the can as the weight of the liquid is needed to keep the candle from tipping over. _2. Fit a No. 2% can inside the top of the can used for the base. Cut one inch from the top of this can and discard this piece. Then split down the edge about 2% inches every ™% inch all around the can. 3. With long-nosed pliers, curl these edges under. 4. Fit another can, about 6 inches tall, inside the No. 21% can. 5. Fit another shorter can inside the above can and cut down and curl as directed above. 6. Fit another 4-inch can on top of this. 7. Fit a small frozen juice can inside the can described above, split and curl as before. This will be the can which holds the candle. 8. Cement the cans together with a good metal cement and let them dry thoroughly overnight. 9. Decorate the cans with bits of heavy lace, cut in various shapes, or fit a piece of lace around each can, covering it completely, or cut lace borders. Attach lace with strong glue or cement. 10. Attach upholstery braid around the top and bottom of each of the large cans. 11. When all cement or glue has dried thoroughly, spray the candle in a pale gold color, silver color, or other color, as desired. 12. Apply the trimming jewels with dart cement. The more jewels used, the more elegant the candle holder will be. 920 Berta Josuks MAKE Marzipan, a delicious sweetmeat of European origin, MARZIPAN is easily made, and its possibilities of variation in FOR form, color, and flavor make it a delight for special occasions such as children's parties, bridal showers, CHRISTMAS holidays, and especially for Christmas. 15 bitter almonds, or, if small, 25 bitter whites of three large eggs or 4 small eggs, almonds beaten 1 Ib. Sweet almonds 1 tbsp. Light-colored syrup 1 Ib. Powdered sugar enough rosewater for a stiff mixture Variations Some recipes substitute beaten egg yolk for the egg whites listed in the basic recipe, and finely sifted granulated sugar may be used instead of powdered sugar. If bitter almonds (Prunus amygdalus, variety amara) cannot be obtained, the amount of sugar and sweet almonds can be increased as desired, and almond flavoring, to taste, may be added, or lemon, lime, or orange juice may be used for variety. Prepared almond paste can be purchased and substituted for grated almonds. Two and one half cups of almonds equal one cup of paste. 921 DECEMBER 1963 Methods of Preparation Grate the almonds finely on a hand grater, or, if preferred, grind them in a hand grinder, or chop with mechanical chopper, or pound into a paste. Mix almonds and sugar and add egg whites or egg yolks, syrup, and rosewater, according to the recipe used. Knead well for 15 to 30 minutes. Shape mixture into the form desired. This may be some shapes of fruit, such as strawberries, bananas, apples, plums, peaches, oranges, lemons, limes, pears; or some vegetable, such as tomatoes, potatoes, carrots, beets, turnips, asparagus, celery, parsnips, avocado; or, especially for Christmas, the marzipan could be molded into the shape of Christmas trees, dolls, poinsettias, bells. The mixture may be shaped around a fruit center, such as a maraschino cherry or pieces of candied orange or lemon peel, dates, figs, or raisins. The marzipan, after it has been molded into the desired shapes, can then be dipped into chocolate icing, standard white icing colored with food coloring, or part of the original mixture may be diluted with syrup, egg white, or a small amount of hot water to make a color mixture for dipping the marzipan shapes. Jane S. Tibbals and Hazel S. Cannon When family and friends gather home for the holidays, these nostalgic reunions prompt entertaining and festive foods. The gaiety of the holly season brings out the party-giver in us. We all have our own special menus for the traditional feast days. However, on those other occasions when we invite guests for a brunch, an open-house, or a buffet, we can make hostessing a joy by creating unusual and imaginative food dishes, many of which can be prepared in advance. 922 TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL Brunch, that delightful combination of breakfast and lunch, is a heart-warming way to extend yuletide hospitality. Chicken Breast Gourmet Orange Rice Mold with Pimento Stars Della Robbia Fruit Wreath Fruit Dressing Stollen Stick Bread Butter Celery Hot Chocolate With Whipped Cream and Red Cinnamon Candies AFTER THE Two whimsical red flannel figures, trimmed with gold ribbon braid, peal out a "welcome home." PLANE ARRIVES Round place mats, cut from felt with the pinking shears, contrast with the white Christmas tree plates, and bronze silverware accents the other golden touches. Hot chocolate in jolly Santa Claus mugs is crowned with a dollop of whipped cream sprinkled with red cinnamon candies (keep the chocolate mild and add a whisper of almond flavoring for a taste treat). The party-starter is tomato juice.. Featured for the main course are delicious chicken breasts gourmet and a mold of orange rice with plump light raisins and Christmasy pimento stars. An eye-catching Della Robbia fruit wreath (it's easy art) of color-bright canned and fresh fruits is served with a luscious tangy dressing—and what could be more homey than tantalizing jewel-studded holiday bread? DECEMBER 1963 CHICKEN BREAST GOURMET 6 med. Chicken breasts or 3 large breasts cut in half? Tsp. Salt va c. Butter or margarine 1 four-oz. Can mushrooms, drained 2 tbsp. Seasoned flour 1 tbsp. Lemon juice Ya «. Flour Ya tsp. Pepper 1 tbsp. Chopped onion 1 chicken bouillon cube 1 c¢. Hot water Y% ¢. Light or heavy cream Method: Mix flour, salt, and pepper in heavy paper bag. Add chicken and coat thoroughly. Brown slowly in butter or substitute. Remove chicken from pan and add onion and mushrooms; cook for 2 or 3 minutes. Stir in the 2 tbsp. Of seasoned flour. Dissolve bouillon cube in hot water and add to flour-fat mixture and stir until smooth. Add slowly the lemon juice and cream. Arrange chicken in casserole or flat baking dish; spoon sauce over chicken; cover and bake in a medium oven for about 1 hour. Uncover for the last 15 minutes if a crisp chicken is desired. Serves 6. ORANGE RICE MOLD WITH PIMENTO STARS 1 ¢. Regular long grain rice VY tsp. Curry powder V2 tsp. Salt Yc. Light seedless raisins pimentos 2 to 4 tbsp. Frozen orange juice concentrate, undiluted 1 pt. Water 2 tbsp. Butter Method: Combine curry and orange juice concentrate. (The amount of the juice used will depend on one's taste and the color desired). Mix to a smooth paste and add remaining ingredients. Place in baking dish and bake covered in a 325 to 350 degree oven for about 142 hours or until rice is done. Mix lightly with a fork to distribute raisins. Pack in buttered mold and keep warm until serving time. Unmold on serving plate and trim with pimento stars. Individual molds may be used. Blanched almonds may be added just prior to placing in mold. Nice with fried or creamed chicken. 924 DELLA ROBBIA FRUIT WREATH canned peach halves canned pear halves canned preserved or spiced crabapples creamed cheese, softened and whipped with milk, if necessary Tokay grapes granulated sugar canned pineapple slices canned whole apricots curly endive 2 or 3 green gumdrops green grapes egg white pink or red coloring Method: Use your own imagination and creativity in making this wreath, both in the selection of fruits and in the arranging of them. Remember that color contrasts are effective. The above ingredients are merely suggestive. Drain the canned fruit (save the juices for punch) and chill. Arrange a bed of curly endive on a large round serving dish or chop platter. Place all decorated fruit in a circle around a bowl of fruit dressing. The pears and peaches are pretty with two halves put together with a ruffle of cream cheese. Wipe the halves thoroughly and spread one half of the fruit around the edges with the cheese; add the other half and let the cheese extend beyond the joining of the two. A dried fruit and nut mixture may be used to stuff fruit, if desired. Make blushing pears by rubbing each half with a tiny bit of rosy coloring; stand upright, and garnish with leaves cut from green gumdrops. Frosted grapes add an artistic touch. Several hours or the day before assembling the wreath, dip bunches of grapes into slighty beaten egg white. Drain off excess egg white and dip in granulated sugar. Dry thoroughly. FRUIT DRESSING v2 «. Lemon juice 3 whole eggs 1 c. Sugar 1 c. Whipping cream Method: Beat eggs and add sugar and lemon juice. Cook in double boiler or in a very heavy pan until mixture is thick, stirrring constantly. Cool and fold in whipping cream. Makes about 3 cups of dressing. Delicious with all kinds of fruit salads. Keeps well in refrigerator. THE CHRISTMAS HOME — INSIDE AND OUT STOLLEN STICK BREAD (Easy Christmas Bread) 3 cakes compressed yeast or 3 pkgs. Active dry yeast Ye c. Warm water 2% c. Whole milk 1% ¢. Sugar Method: Dissolve the yeast cakes in warm water. Scald milk and add sugar, salt, and shortening. Cool. Beat the eggs and add to cooled milk mixture. Sift 10 cups flour and stir part into milk mixture to make a thin batter. Stir in the dissolved yeast cakes and remaining flour. Knead 2 or 3 minutes or until smooth. Place in large well-greased bowl. Cover tightly and store in refrigerator. It will keep 4 to 5 days. Shape as needed. May be made into all kinds of rolls and fancy breads—crescents, loaves, braids, or candied fruit and nuts 1 tbsp. Salt 1 c. Shortening (solid) 6 eggs 10 c. Flour fruit and nuts to dough for stollen bread. Top of bread may be decorated also. Let rise at room temperature until double in bulk and bake at 350 to 400 degrees. Bake rolls or bread sticks 10 to 15 minutes. Loaves will require an hour or more. Makes 18 large bread sticks or 3 to 4 loaves. May be frosted with glaze made from powdered sugar and undiluted frozen orange juice concentrate to make of spreading consistency. Decorations may be placed on top of glaze. Ideal for gift giving. Any number of other shapes. Add candied What type of Christmas food and service teams best with the cheery note of the blazing hearth? The answer, of course, is the holiday buffet supper. Do-ahead foods with their festive touches, easy serving, opportunity to use one's prettiest serving pieces, and an informal setting for sharing the spirit of the season characterize this type of entertaining. LIGHTING OF THE YULE LOG French Onion Soup Parmesan Cheese Garnish Melba Toast Glorified Party Lasagne Winter Pear Salad Sweet French Dressing with Pomegranate Seeds Whole-Wheat Refrigerator Bread Sticks Butter Relish Trees Bavarian Cream Grandma's Christmas Bell Cookies A holly tree, accented with fresh red carnations inserted in florists' tubes which hold water and keep the ball fresh for several days, points up the holiday green cloth of heavy ribbed cotton. Two smaller relish trees are laden with cherry tomatoes, Mexican peppers, olives, pickles, radish roses, and cauliflower segments. The trees are made of styrofoam balls (grapefruit may be used), impaled on dowels set in plaster of Paris in clay pots. Pots and dowels are painted white. As finishing touches, the tops of the pots are decorated; parsley is used as a base for the relish trees. Antique pearl-handled silver and white plates and cups add a sharp note. Tasty French onion soup is ladled from an old tureen and makes a happy supper beginning as the yule log is lighted. The "piécé de résistance" is glorified party lasagne, a hearty, subtly seasoned dish, loved by young and old. With it is served a simple winter pear salad and whole-wheat bread sticks fresh from the oven. The piquant goodness of sweet French dressing with bright pomegranate seeds garnishes the pears. A lighthearted dessert, a Bavarian cream, resplendent in a green pressed glass compote, and Grandma's Christmas bell cookies are a gay finale. 925 FRENCH ONION SOUP 1 large soup bone (also beef shank if meat is desired) celery, parsley, a carrot, and bay leaf for seasoning 6 med. Onions 1 pkg. Dry onion soup salt and pepper 3 to 4 qts. Water 1 large onion 4 tbsp. Butter % to Ya c. Soy sauce Method: Brown soup bone on all sides and add seasonings, including salt and pepper. Add one large onion and water. Let simmer for several hours. Strain and cool, removing fat from top. Saute 6 sliced onions in butter until transparent; add pkg. Dry commercial onion soup, soy sauce, and simmer for 2 hours. Place melba toast in bottom of dish or cup. Fill with onion soup and garnish with Parmesan cheese. Serves 10 to 12 generously. Can be made ahead and frozen. GLORIFIED PARTY LASAGNE Va to % |b. Lasagne noodles 2 med. Onions, grated or chopped 926 MODEL. SUSAN FAITH SOWARDS 2 15~0z. Cans tomato sauce 2 tbsp. Brown sugar Y% tsp. Onion salt 1 tbsp. Dried parsley (2 to 3 tbsp. Finely chopped fresh parsley) Ya tsp. Oregano 1 8-0z. Can mushrooms 3 hard-cooked eggs (may be omitted) Ya Ib. Mozzarella cheese or Monterey jack, grated Y% Ib. Nippy American cheese, grated 2 Ibs. Ground beef 1 #2% can tomatoes 1 to 1% tsp. Spaghetti seasoning Y% tsp. Garlic salt 1 small can small pitted ripe olives % |b. Ricotta or cottage cheese, not creamed 2 to 3 oz. Parmesan cheese Method: Cook noodles according to directions on package. Lift carefully onto damp cloth. Store in refrigerator until needed. Lightly brown and cook meat until well done. Add sauce, tomatoes, mushrooms with liquid, seasonings, and liquid from olives. Simmer slowly for about two hours, or until thick. Add olives during last of cooking period. Alternate layers of noodles and sauce in 8 x 13 x 1% to 2-inch flat baking pan, ending with sauce. Sprinkle each sauce layer with cheeses and sliced eggs, reserving Parmesan cheese for top layer after putting other cheeses on first. Bake in 325 to 350 degree oven for about one hour or a little longer, or until slighty brown and bubbly. Serves 12 generously. Freezes well if eggs are omitted. SWEET FRENCH DRESSING Y% «. Sugar 1 tsp. Dry mustard Yy tsp. Celery seed % c. Mild vinegar 1 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Grated onion 1 c. Salad oil few pomegranate seeds or 2 tbsp. Chopped red maraschino cherries Method: Combine dry ingredients in small bowl of electirc mixer or beat by hand with rotary beater. Add onion to bowl. Slowly add salad oil alternately with a few drops of the vinegar, beating constantly while adding and between times. Do not shake in a covered jar. Dressing will be fairly thick. Serve on fresh and cooked fruit combinations, melon, or lettuce. If oil separates after storing in refrigerator, beat up well with spoon before serving. Makes about 12 cups. Variation: Where color scheme does not call for pink or red, add 1 tsp. Paprika to dry ingredients. WHOLE-WHEAT REFRIGERATOR ROLLS 1 compressed yeast cake or 1 pkg. Active dry yeast 2 tbsp. Tepid water 1 tbsp. Sugar 3 eggs 2 c. White flour lc. Milk, scalded Y% c. Shortening Y% ¢. Sugar 1 tsp. Salt 2 c. Whole-wheat flour Method: Dissolve yeast cake in tepid water and add 1 tbsp. Sugar. Let stand until bubbly. Add shortening, sugar, and salt to scalded milk. Cool and add beaten eggs; stir in yeast mixture. Sift the flour into liquid and stir just long enough to mix in the flour. Do not knead. Dough will be soft. Grease large bowl and put in dough. Cover tightly and let stand in the refrigerator over night or until well chilled. Make into roils and let rise 2 to 3 hours before baking. Dough will THE CHRISTMAS HOME — INSIDE AND OUT keep several days in the refrigerator. Bake at 375 to 400 degrees for 10 to 15 minutes. Makes about 35 to 40 rolls, depending on size, or 8 large bread sticks. BAVARIAN CREAM 1 pkg. Unflavored gelatine (1 tbsp.) 4 eggs, separated Yc sugar 1 c. Heavy cream blanched almonds and green candied cherries 2 tbsp. Cold water 1 ¢. Whole milk 1 tsp. Vanilla ¥2 tsp. Almond extract Method: Soften gelatin in cold water. Scald milk and pour over egg yolk and sugar mixture. Cook over boiling water, stirring constantly until smooth and _ thick. Add softened gelatin and continue to stir until gelatin is completely dissolved. Cool and stir from time to time to prevent a crust from forming. Fold in beaten egg whites and whipped cream and chill for several hours before serving. Can be poured immediately into serving dish and decorated after it sets with almond and green cherry poinsettias. May be put in a ring mold and served with fruit. Serves about 8. GRANDMA'S CHRISTMAS BELL COOKIES 1 lb. Butter 1% c. White sugar 4'2 to 5c. Flour 1 tsp. Vanilla 2 whole eggs 1 tsp. Baking powder % tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Almond or vanilla flavoring Method: Proceed as for plain cake. Use just enough flour to handle. Roll out very lightly with well-floured rolling pin or pat out to a thickness of about %-% inch. This short bread dough must be handled with a light touch, but it is well worth it. Cut with a Christmas bell cookie cutter and transfer to cookie sheet with spatula. Decorate with sugar decorettes, candied fruit or nuts, or leave plain. Bake in 350 degree oven for 12 to 15 minutes or until very delicately brown. This dough is ideal for a cookie press or it may be made in rolls and used as a refrigerator cookie. Makes 6 to 7 dozen, depending on size. 927 DECEMBER 1963 A holiday open house can be a gracious, hospitable way of seeing a large number of friends and exchanging warm greetings in person. Mosaic Cheese Sandwiches Crab Pinwheel Sandwiches Miniature Ham Rolls or Cheese Ball and Assorted Crackers Christmas Tarts (Angel Pie, Cherry, Cocoa-Mint, Lemon) Hot Nuts Hollyberry Wassail ' A pink cathedral linen cloth is used on the table, LET'S HAVE OUR anda a scien and a deeper tone of the same lush color is echoed FRIENDS AND in the plates and cups. Stylized felt wise men in mauves, blues, blue-greens, and violets, and an anNEIGHBORS IN tique candleholder take the spotlight. A delectable hot cranberry punch (so pretty in pink cups) complements make-ahead-and-freeze mosaic cheese and crab pinwheel sandwiches which intrigue guests with their precise checkerboard pattern, but the actual preparation is fairly simple. The tasty ham rolls may be concocted from your leftover Christmas ham, or for cheese lovers, a cheese ball rolled in chipped beef is the perfect answer. For dessert what could be more glamorous than a sumptuous array of Christmas tarts—angel pie, a cherry poinsettia on top, cocoa-mint with its pink fluff of peppermint candy topping, cherry with a star cutout, and popular lemon? Make your own favorite kinds and decorate with a festive hand. If you're worried about making flaky pie crust, try the Never Fail Pastry. For filled shells, these can be made a day or so in advance of your party. Hot nuts add a special something to the menu. CLOTH. COURTESY OF WINIFRED P. SANDERS MODEL CAROLE ANNE E. CANNON | MOSAIC (Checkerboard) CHEESE SANDWICHES 3 white lengthwise slices of bread, % to % inch thick 3 whole-wheat, 100% preferably, lengthwise slices of bread, ¥2 to % inch thick % cc. Soft butter (about) 2-5 oz. Jars American processed pimento cheese (about), thinned with a little milk or cream Method: Cut crusts off bread and make a uniform size. Make two stacks of bread slices—two white slices with a whole-wheat in the middle, and two whole-wheat with a white in the middle. Spread the bottom and center slice of each stack with butter and cheese, spreading the edges and liberally enough to make slices adhere well. Chill for a few hours or until filling is hard. Cut in slices the same width as thickness of bread (% to % inch), and using 2 slices of one loaf and one of the other, put 3 slices together to form a checkerboard pattern, Spread butter and cheese on the bottom and middle slices. Chill thoroughly before slicing. Makes about 40 to 60 sandwiches, depending on lenath of bread. Freezes well. CRAB PINWHEEL SANDWICHES 1 med. White sandwich loaf, sliced thin lengthwise 1 8-0z. Pkg. White cream cheese 2 tbsp. Light cream Ya to 2 c. Soft butter small pitted olives 1 can crab meat Y% c. Salad dressing 1 to 2 tsp. Grated onion few drops pink coloring small sweet pickles Method: Add salad dressing and cream to cheese and mix well. Add grated onion, flaked crab meat, and coloring. Remove crusts from bread, and unless the bread is very fresh and rolls easily, roll slightly with rolling pin. Spread with butter and filling. Place olives or pickles across the end and roll lengthwise. Chill until filling is firm. Cut into 6 or 7 pinwheel slices. Makes about 30 to 40 little sandwiches. Freezes well. THE CHRISTMAS HOME — INSIDE AND OUT ANGEL PIE TARTS 4 egg yolks, beaten 3 tbsp. Lemon juice dash of salt Yc. Sugar 1 tbsp. Grated lemon rind 1 c. Whipping cream red maraschino cherry strips Method: Combine all ingredients, except whipping cream and cherry strips. Cook in double boiler until thick. Remove from heat and cool. Whip cream and fold in lemon mixture. Fill tart shells and garnish each tart with poinsettia made with red maraschino cherry strips. Chill until set. Makes about 10 tarts or one 8 or 9-inch pie. COCOA-MINT TARTS Y% c. Butter 2 ¢. Powdered sugar 2 eggs, separated 1 ¢c. Whipping cream Yc. Soft peppermint candies, coarsely crushed 2 tbsp. Cocoa dash of salt 1 tbsp. Vanilla flavoring % ¢. Miniature marshmallows few drops pink coloring Method: Cream butter in mixer and add salt, powdered sugar, cocoa, vanilla, and egg yolks. Blend well. Remove from beater and fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Fill tart shells and garnish with whipped cream to which have been added marshmallows, and coloring. Fills 10 to 12 tart shells or one 8 or 9-inch pie. Candies, MINIATURE HAM ROLLS 1 Ib. Or about 2 ¢. Ground ham (leftover ham is ideal) Y2 c. Salad dressing 1 tsp. Prepared mustard 12 miniature uncut hot dog buns V2 c. Finely cubed celery Ya ¢c. Ground sweet pickles grated cheese for top (nippy or semi-nippy) (continued on page 956) 929 Ra a / THEOLOGY @ The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 54 — Stewardships; A Review Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 70 and 72) For First Meeting, March 1964 Objective: To learn the importance of stewardship, the work of the bishop, and the contributions of a year's revelations. Introduction During the first twelve days of November 1831, four special conferences were conducted by the Prophet Joseph Smith. A part of the proceedings of some of these conferences has already been noted. (Lesson 52, Relief Society Magazine, September 1963.) One of the principal orders of business concerned the publication of the revelations into a volume to be known as the Book of Commandments. At this time the Prophet gave an evaluation of the revelations which is worthy of notice by all people. His first point was that they were the foundation of the Church in the last days. The Prophet also said that these revelations were of such great benefit to the world because thev brought eternal life within the reach of everyone who was willing to live by every word which the Lord had revealed. When one thinks of this fact, he immediately remembers that: first, divine directions were given to 930 organize the Church, with the powers of the Priesthood restored for this purpose. Second, these revelations point out the clear pathway of salvation with its principles and ordinances to lead the faithful to exaltation. Third, they also give an understanding of man's purpose in life, with specific directions on how covenants may be kept inviolate. Fourth, the Lord's will is revealed regarding present world conditions and what one may expect in the future. Fifth, the great blessing of how to achieve joy in this life through physical and spiritual wellbeing is indicated. 'These and other contributions to man's knowledge give abundant support to the Prophet's evaluation. The first conference that convened in November voted, after approving the printing of the revelations, that... They prize the revelations to be worth to the Church the riches of the whole earth, speaking temporally. The SEE reat benefits to the world which result from the Book of Mormon and the revelations which the Lord has seen fit in Ilis infinite wisdom to grant unto us for our salvation, and for the salvation of all that will believe, were duly appreciated (DHC 1:235-236). Following this statement the Prophet wrote that Section 70 was received upon his inquiry. Section 70 Several elders were named in verse 1 of Section 70, and their responsibilities regarding the revelations to be printed were outlined in verses 2 through g. In addition to taking care of the revelations, they were to see to their printing and distribution. The books were to be sold, and the surplus was to be placed in the hands of the bishop and placed in the Lord's storehouse to be consecrated to the faithful inhabitants of Zion. In the minutes of the conference it was recorded that four of the brethren named in this revelation — Oliver Cowdery, Martin Harris, John Whitmer, Sidney Rigdon — had, from the beginning, labored with the Prophet; consequently, they, with the families of several others, according to the laws of the Church, were worthy of an inheritance from the bishop in Zion. (DHC. I:236.) Stewardships The brethren mentioned in Section 70 were told that their obligation in caring for the revelations, as given above, was referred to as a stewardship. As _ stewards, these elders were to discharge their responsibilities to the letter. 'The importance of caring for their stewardship in this manner is thus indicated: LESSON DEPARTMENT And an account of this stewardship will I require of them in the day of judgment (D & C 70:4). The application of this truth, when applied to all members of the Church in what the Lord has given them, is discussed by President Brigham Young, in these words:... What is our duty? It is our duty to improve upon every blessing the Lord gives to us. If He gives us land, improve it; if He gives us the privilege of building houses, improve it... If He gives us the privilege of gathering together, let us sanctify ourselves. In His providence He has called the Latter-day Saints from the world, has gathered them from other nations, and given them a place upon the earth. Is this a blessing? Yes, one of the greatest the people can enjoy, to be free from the wickedness of the wicked, from the calamities and clamor of the world. By this blessing we can show to our Father in Heaven that we are faithful stewards; and more, it is a blessing to have the privilege of handing back to Him that which He has put in our possession, and not say it is ours, until He shall say it from the heavens (Journal of Discourses 2:304-305). All of us are stewards over the things of this earth which are ours legally, but, in fact, they are the Lord's. (Mosiah 2:20-26.) An accounting of what we do with these blessings, including offices in the Church, will be required of us in the day of judgment. During the period when Section 70 was given and for some time later, all members of the Church were under obligation to abide by the law of consecration. This exempted no one. (D & C 70:10-11.) Under this law, all were to be equal, but the equality was not of a dead-level nature. Each was to receive according to his needs and circumstances. (Ibid., 14-18; 42:32; 51:3.) 9B DECEMBER 1963 Worthy of His Hire When the Lord instructed his Seventy, who were to precede him into the villages where he would preach, he counseled them to receive such assistance as was needful from those who would offer it. (Luke 10:1-8.) Jesus taught the Seventy that "the labourer is worthy of his hire" (Ibid., verse 7). This truth has been given in this dispensation, and under the law as stated, those who work for the welfare of their fellow Church members are to receive in accordance with their needs. This law not only applies to those appointed to administer in the temporal but also in the spiritual concerns of the Church. (D & C 70:12-13.) It will be recalled that soon after the Church was organized, a revelation was received giving the three branches of the Church the opportunity to provide material support to the Prophet Joseph Smith, since he was required to tend to his duties as the Prophet. (Ibid., 24:3-4.) Remuneration for services or temporal assistance has been given to certain groups at different times during this dispensation. (DHC I:220.) What may be termed the law of remuneration was also revealed in Section 42, verses 70 through 73, and mentioned in 43:13. Where individuals must give of their full time to accomplish their callings which would not allow them to make a livelihood otherwise, a just remuneration is allowed. In the main, however, the male members of the Church function in the Priesthood without benefit of monetarv help. All Church members are expected to contribute of their time, talents, and material possessions for 932 the advancement of the kingdom of God. The spiritual rewards of such service are known to all those who have thus participated. Section 72 The Prophet and Sidney Rigdon undertook a mission as commanded. (Section 71.) While in Kirtland, Ohio, several elders and members raised questions which apparently required the Lord's answer; whereupon, Section 72 was received. (DHC lI:239.) When the Prophet had arrived in Kirtland almost one year before this, the Lord revealed that Edward Partridge should be appointed as the bishop unto the Church. (D & C 41:9-10.) Not long after that Bishop Partridge and others, including Joseph Smith, went to western Missouri, where the bishop was to take up his duties under the law of consecration. (Ibid., 57:7, 14-15.) The temporal and spiritual needs of the Church in Kirtland were such that the Lord appointed a bishop in Kirtland. The appointee was Newel K. Whitney. (Ibid., 72:2, 8.) An interesting story of his call is related by his grandson, Orson F'. Whitney, an apostle of this dispensation: Newel K. Whitney, staggering under the weight of the responsibility that was about to be placed upon him, said to the Prophet: "Brother Joseph, I can't see a Bishop in myself." No; but God could see it in him. He was a natural Bishop — a first class man of affairs. Probably no other incumbent of that important office, the Presiding Bishopric, to which he eventually attained, has been better qualified for it than Newel K. Whitney. But he could not see it, and he shrank from the responsibility. "The Prophet answered: "Go and ask the Lord about it." And Newel did ask the Lord, and he heard a voice from heaven say: "Thy strength is in me." That was enough. He accepted the office, and served in it faithfully to the end of his days — a period of eighteen years (Conference Report, June 1919, pp. 47- 48). The duties of Bishop Whitney were set forth as: (1) to receive an accounting of the stewardships of the elders in that area; (2) to keep the Lord's storehouse; (3) to receive funds; (4) to administer to the wants of the elders; (5) to render an accounting to Bishop Partridge in Zion of those who were unable to pay for what they received of the Church. (D & C 72:5-13.) Although Bishop Whitney was required to look after the stewardships of the elders in that area, yet each steward would have to give an accounting of his own stewardship, in time and in eternity. (Ibid., verse 3.) Agreeable to the law that obedience brings forth the blessings of heaven (Ibid., 130:20-21), we are told that,... He who ts faithful and wise in time is accounted worthy to inherit the mansions prepared for him of my Father (Ibid., 72:4). An Application As one looks at the foregoing list of responsibilities of the bishop in Kirtland and thinks of their application to the present-day ward bishop, he sees the same or similar duties to this office. Verse 12 of Section 72 states that the bishop is to take care of the poor and needy. The calling of the bishop was well explained by President Joseph F. Smith as not only taking care of the poor, the sick and the afflicted, but also these duties: LESSON DEPARTMENT._-~It is also the duty of these presiding officers [bishopric] in the Church to look after the spiritual welfare of the people, to see that they are living moral, pure and upright lives, that they are faithful in the discharge of their duties as Latterday Saints, that they are honest in their dealings with one another, and with all the world. It is their business to see that spiritual light exists in their hearts, and that the people under their presidency and direction are living the lives of Saints, as far as it is possible for men and women in the mortal body, beset by the weaknesses and imperfections of mankind, can be Saints. Great responsibility rests upon these, and we have to work in the Church, in this relation, a vast corps of efficient men who are laboring diligently for the welfare of mankind (Conference Report, October 1904, page 3). Conclusion of Section 72 Further information was given about the operation of the law of consecration with special emphasis upon the necessity for members of the Church in Kirtland, going to Zion, to take with them a certificate showing that they were worthy members. (D & C 72:16-26.) The same procedure is followed today in what is known as the membership certificate. The conclusion of this revelation suggests that wise stewards are to follow the counsel given in the revelation. (Ibid., verses 25-26.) In the ultimate sense, the member who follows the words of the Lord will place the interests of the Church first. Brigham Young's life of dedication to the cause of Zion is a splendid example of the faithful steward. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 428.) Do we individually meet the requirements of the wise steward? 933 DECEMBER 1963 What of the Past? Section 72 was the last revelation received during the year 1831. It was the most fruitful year in terms of the number of revelations received as shown in the "Chronological Order of Contents" in the forepart of each copy of the Doctrine and Covenants. A review of the sections will indicate that, due to the growth of the Church during the latter part of 1830 and the year 1831, many problems arose in this fast-growing Church. At the beginning of the year, the Lord took cognizance of the poverty of the saints and promised that he would give his "law" which, if lived, would bring temporal relief to the citizens of his kingdom and would prepare them for spiritual unity. 'This would result in the blessing of each person enjoying equally the bounties of the earth. (Section 38.) Officers were added to the Church, such as the High Priests of the Melchizedek Priesthood; the bishop, the presiding officer of the Aaronic Priesthood; and a Church _ Historian. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 205; D & CG, Sections 41, 72, and 47 respectively.) 'The promised "law" (Section 42) included commandments regarding (1) preaching the gospel; (2) moral conduct; (3) consecration; (4) administration to the sick; (5) sundry duties; (6) remuneration for services; and (7) the law concerning transgressors. The fundamental principle that only one man may receive revelation for the Church, while others may receive individual guidance was also given. (Section 43.) There followed 934 the great revelation on signs which would precede the Lord's second coming and the events associated with that coming. (Sections 43 and 45-) A series of revelations contains the keys against being deceived, for the benefit of Church members of 1831 and in subsequent years. 'These sections include counsel on the benefits accruing to members because of receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, with the many gifts that strengthen one against deception. (Section 46.) Due to the presence of a sect known as the Shaking Quakers (Lesson 34, Relief Society Magazine, August 1961) to whom the Lord directed missionary work, the saints were given enlightenment on the purpose of the earth, the necessity of marriage, the keys against false Christs and other impostors, with the ultimate move ment of the Church to the Rocky Mountain area. (Section 49.) A lesson is learned in Section 50 when manifestations of false sprits seek to deceive the unwary. Direction ls provided to test false teachings out of the Church as well as in it. (Section 52.) In counsel given to individuals who sought for guidance, there are some universal truths enunciated which point up these three facts: (1) those who seek the Lord early will find rich benefits that prepare them for a full and long life here and for the blessings of eternity (Section 54); (2) exaltation ls earned by enduring to the end through constancy in living the commandments (Section 53); (3) to take up one's cross involves a large number of commitments by the covenant child of God. (Section 6.) The anticipation of the saints in knowing the location and. The destiny of the prophesied New Jerusalem is realized. 'The objective to work for the establishment of Zion upon the earth is made known. (Sections 57 and 58.) The Sabbath day observance and the rich benefits to be received by the obedient is made known during this period. (Section 59.) A promise of "much tribulation" (Section 58), and a warning concerning the waters of the last days was also received. (Section 61.) Instructions to missionaries in exercising their talents and _ bearing testimony, also form a part of the vears counsel. (Sections 60 and 62.) There is renewed the fate of the sign seeker; and counsel against falling into lightmindedness toward sacred things is given emphasis. [(Section 63.) The sections of this year's study complete the year's revelations — forgiveness and repentance, the ultiLESSON DEPARTMENT mate triumph of God's work, further additions to our knowledge of Church organization — the bishopric, and, finally, the responsibility of parents in the rearing of their children. Conclusion It can be said in truth that the validity of the revelations is established by their contents, their unity, and their orderliness to meet the purposes of this dispensation. Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God appointed to lead those who want to be led to a divine destiny. Questions for Discussion 1. In what ways are the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants the foundation of the Church?. What would you consider the specific qualities that classify a member of the Church as a "wise steward''? Discuss: ""The labourer is worthy of his hire." 4. Name some of the outstanding contributions of the revelations received during the year 1831. 5. What are some of the main points in the evaluation of the revelations of 1831 as given in the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 4209? Ww wa Zara Sabin Love is not words at all — It is remembered laughter, A fragrance, a footfall, The stuff of dreams, long after — The brush of fingertips, A thought, a sigh, some such.... A small, small smile on lips Of lovers, can mean much. No need to speak a word — Love will still be heard. 935 936 NORTH U ) 4 f) 1 ' eliTNAM.! 1 'Schuyler | SCOTLAND! Y 1 CLARK LEWIS fj ILLINOIS _ illport KANSAS — ¢ -m SOUTH I —, DE KALB ia _— Groves _ seph/ = y Livingston NEBRASKA a \ y DAVIESS L=====; ===4) Catowenj marion | FROM INDEPENDENCE TO KIRTLAND 1000 MILES L- » )} BUCHANAN ile I | 1 1 1 | a Se 1 f (__ | Ne!, + SP pay CARROLL ') ¢: im Se.; yRY L. —_>. Aiberty {G5 @ Richmond, = a a eee AUDRAIN | i @ Missouri Cit | J ---4 A ' X >.. 1 (---iji-+4 ' ay cmard } 1 LINCOLN ® | SALINE; jiZ__} 7 S = { ' BOONE S 1 1 t: I INDEPENDENCE LAFAYETTE ~"U fi i | |. 1 ~ Kansas City \, | ae.: 1 \ ee SIe Tas ~UL ae ~ = 1 ' Tr ) m4 he =) ' I ' ' t = f° JACKSON. J; Callaway; = ——-4 i ST. CHARLES; @lee's Summit a fi a — oe 'i 1 / ae t ZY St. Louis ® t ST. LOUIS i}: JS COOPER, ' " I -! (!; Li -s "We etterson City | ' i 1 5 1 a aofesoao:! I | |!! JOHNSON | PETTIS I 1 a. Fast | CASS Lynne \ MISSOURI s Springfield KANSAS Map of northern Missouri, showing places of significance in Church history Map of Ohio, showing places of significance in Church history On opposite page: OKLAHOMA 937 VNVIQNI MICHIGAN @ DAYTON CINCINNATI KENTUCKY AMHERST @ @ THOMP @ @CONCcoRD KIRTLAND @ ORANGE CITY OBERLIN @ OHIO @ HIRAM @ MANTUA @ RAVENNA NORTH SOUTH @ PITTSBURGH W. VIRGINIA PENNSYLVANIA MARYLAND VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Message 54—"For Unto Him That Receiveth It Shall Be Given More Abundantly, Even Power" (D & C 71:6). Christine H. Robinson For First Meeting, March 1964 Objective: To show that knowledge leads to more knowledge and wisdom begets wisdom. Tue entire quotation from which this message in the Doctrine and Covenants is taken states, "Now, behold this is wisdom; whoso readeth, let him understand and receive also; For unto him that receiveth it shall be given more abundantly, even power" (D & C 71:5-6). Those called to proclaim the gospel, expounding the things of the kingdom according to the spirit and power given them, were promised that as they proclaimed the gospel truths, more power to teach the gospel would be added unto them. This promise of being given added ability or power is also referred to by the Savior in these words: 'For whosoever hath, to him shall be given, and he shall have more abundance: but whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken away even that he hath" (Matt. 13:12). The fulfillment of this promise is realized not only as we preach the gospel, but also as we seek after knowledge, wisdom, and understanding. The assurance of having knowledge added upon knowledge is one of the most interesting, gratifying, and comforting of life's basic challenges. 938 One of the interesting characteristics of knowledge is, that as we seek and receive it, it comes to us with its own magnifier and multi plier. 'Truth leads to more truth. Knowledge opens the door to more. Knowledge and as one learns, one's capacity to learn improves and one's __ scope of understanding is broadened. President Heber Grant so often emphasized the aphorism of Emerson "That which we persist in doing becomes easier for us to do; not that the nature of the thing itself is changed, but that our power to do is increased" (Gospel Standards, page 355). President Grant's own life exemplified dramatically the application of this basic truth. He surmounted many unusual difficulties through practice and persistence, by taking one step at a time and by using each mastered step to assist him to take the next one. The story is well known of how he improved his penmanship from virtual illegibility to beautiful handwriting through persistence and practice. Also, as a small boy he was unable to sing or carry a tune, and those who tried to teach him despaired in their ef- forts. Yet, through persistent practice and determination, one step at a time, he learned to sing numerous songs and hymns. George D. Pyper, famed musician, once remarked, "President Grant was born with less tune, time, or rhythm than most mortals, yet by his intense energy and persistence, he overcame this handicap" (Hincxiey, Bryant S-:: Life of a Great Leader, page 48). Certainly as we succeed in performing well one task, our ability to move forward to greater accomplishments is improved. 'Truly, as the Doctrine and Covenants states "'unto him that receiveth it shall be given more abundantly, even power' (D & C 71:6). During his ministry, the Savior lamented the fact that many of the people he attempted to teach, although they had eyes and ears, were unable to see, hear, or understand. Unfortunately, this is also frequently true in our own experience. We refuse to see or to receive knowledge. All too often we allow confusion, complacency, uncertainty, and lack of confidence to blind and cheat us out of the joys and _ accomplishments that knowledge and understanding can bring. Some years ago a great woman swimmer who had conquered the English Channel attempted to swim the shorter distance from the Callifornia coast to Catalina Island. The water was cold and a heavy fog lay on the ocean. After successfully LESSON DEPARTMENT covering most of the distance, the swimmer gave up and asked to be taken into the boat which accompanied her. Some time later she was asked if, perhaps, a combination of the cold water and the distance had been responsible for her failure. She replied, "No, it was not the cold nor the distance, it was the fog. I became discouraged when I could not see my objective." Fog (lack of confidence and faith) can easily dim our eyes so that we cannot see our objectives. We become discouraged and close our minds so that we cannot receive wisdom and understanding. As a result, we fail in the accomplishments for which we are actually qualified. In order to gain the joys which accomplishment and achievement bring, we must keep constantly in mind that one task well done leads to the next and makes its achievement less difficult. We must keep fog, complacency, and uncertainty from dimming our eyes and minds, constantly remembering, as the Lord has promised, that as we progress in wisdom and understanding, it shall be given to us more abundantly. Like a muscle that grows stronger through exercise, the successful completion of each new task strengthens our ability to meet and accomplish the next. Step by step as we progress we receive wisdom and knowledge and we enhance our ability to gain added strength and power. 939 f 4 WORK MEETING I. (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 14 — Planning and Preserving Traditions Important to the Family Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, March 1964 Objective: To teach values through establishing worthwhile family traditions. As we think of teaching values through establishing worthwhile family traditions, the thought of love of one's country should be of great importance. Patriotism and love of one's country do not just happen. We must work in times of peace as hard to preserve and perpetuate our ideals as we do to save them in times of war. Every nation has its days celebrating events dear to the hearts of its people. These days are usually commemorating the culmination of ideals realized as a result of much work and sacrifice, and they become traditions in each family, as the days are observed each year in one manner or another. To begin in the family while the children are small to teach this love of country and its flag is important. In every home there should be a flag, the symbol of one's country, and it should be flown on every important day. Family traditions that help children know its value should be carried on throughout the year. Many nations have annual days of prayer and thanksgiving. America was not the first to proclaim such a day. Ancient Israel observed one 940 of the oldest thanksgiving celebrations, the "Feast of Tabernacles." The Lord instructed Moses to have the families of Israel gather together in holy convocation "... When ye have gathered in the fruit of the land." The families assembled in the open air and constructed booths — of "boughs of goodly trees, branches of palm trees, and the boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook." Here they would "keep it a feast unto the Lord," after performing certain religious rites and with prayers of thanksgiving. (See Leviticus 23: 39-41.) Thanksgiving is a family gathering day; one in which the traditions of the nation and the traditions of the family may be observed. The Lord has indicated that he is pleased when families gather together in the spirit of worship. A family who lovingly observes the traditions of its fathers enjoys an enduring relationship. To create or maintain a family tradition is to forge a link in a chain binding the members in a closeness of spirit that holds even though they are miles or continents apart. Many of these special family remembrances are connected with Thanksgiving Day. (See The Relief Society Magazine, November 1959, Editorial pp. 738- 9-) PT he 24th of July calls for other family traditions. Closely linked with love of one's country is love of one's religion and freedom of worship. What can families of today do to honor the pioneers who trumphantly fought the battle of the plains to find a place where they could worship in freedom without being molested? What traditions can be carried on that will be a way of teaching children to honor the pioneers of 1847? The first celebration was held in 1849. After the raising of the national flag, the band played, and the Nauvoo Bell was rung. 'There was a parade and a program, and every family "dined sumptuously" on fruits of the earth produced by their own hands. Latter-day Saint families all have some connections with the pioneers, either directly or indirectly. Whatever these connections may be, today's children should hear the pioneer stories whether they be of those coming in 1847, or at some later date. Each family has a member who was first to embrace the gospel who should be honored and remembered. 'There can be the raising of the flag and the ringing of a bell, and why not a pioneer meal produced in as far as possible by the family, with everyone helping? Pioneers shared whatever they had with their neighbors, and some Sharing, too, can be part of the July 24th tradition. Much has been written about Christmas traditions, and each famLESSON DEPARTMENT ily should develop its own special way of honoring the birth of our Savior. Traditions of Christmas are varied throughout the countries of the world, but they have a significance to families living in each land. These traditions are so well founded that many continue to practice them and make them traditions in their own families, even when they have left the country of their origin. The Family Hour can well be come a cherished tradition. Participation by each member of the family in the planning and programs of such events makes them memorable. Married children then establish this loved tradition in their own homes. Other traditions are built upon days of deep significance to Latterday Saint families. 'The blessing of a babe by father, followed by a family gathering and a review of blessings given babes in Bible times or to ancestors, emphasizes the importance of a name and a father's blessing. 'The day of baptism and the following confirmation should be set apart as the beginning of a new chapter in life. The account of the first person in the family to be baptized should be given in a way that will always be remembered. Priesthood ordination days and callings to various offices in the Church should be marked by family gatherings and special recognition. 'These are occasions when individuals being honored will receive encouragement for spiritual growth if given the Bible or The Book of Mormon or a subscription to a Church magazine, with a message of encouragement from the family. 941 DECEMBER 1963 Birthdays, of course, must be celebrated, and there will be annual family reunions. But some of the traditions that involve such regular happenings as Saturday cleaning of the house, shining of the shoes, and pressing trousers and dresses in order to be at one's best for the Lord's Day may make the strongest impression. What are vour family traditions? What ideals do thev foster? Your answers will strongly suggest what vour family will be twenty years hence. X LITERATURE @ Las eee America's Literature oye | — f 2 | J a. Lesson 46 — Willa Cather, Lover of Life (1874-1947) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 833-849) For Third Meeting, March 1964 Objective: To understand and enjoy the sustaining values of Willa Cather's world. None of man's major frustrations is more vexing than his bewildering inability to live — actually, in senses and knowledge and spirit — in any moment other than the immediate one. How helpless he is to recreate into a fully compelling truth even his own yesterdays, which once he lived and was, let alone those of another, which he has never known with such intimacy. None knows this better than Willa Cather, who writes:... Nobody can paint the sun, or sunlight. He can only paint the tricks that shadows play with it, or what it does to forms. He cannot even paint those relations of light and shade — he can only paint some emotion they give him, some man-made arrangement of them that happens to give him personal delight... 942 ("Light on Adobe Walls," On Writing, Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 1949, pp. 123- 124. Reprinted by permission of the publishers ). Though she broke with other worlds and values, Miss Cather created a high artistic integrity within her own. Her art, like her life, was one of intense dedication to principle, her highest being to honor humanity as she had come to know it. Through her art she simplified the clutter which is life until such truth shone through, and she did all — see, live, create — with uncompromising integrity. All her works exhibit such integrity. 'They are unified by the subtle tone running beneath the surface, by the inner spiritual values which are ever her true concern and which make her pages so unforgettable. Such an achievement came not by chance, but by exemplifying constantly, in her careful craft, her basic literary conviction that every fine story must leave its reader with a feeling of pleasure to be experienced over and over again in the mind, much as one can experience in the memory the perfume of flowers or a beautiful melody. In a very real sense this integrating unity of style and tone is her most memorable achievement, for once having read her, and having at firsthand partaken of the pleasure of her mind and heart, we can never forget her. But above and beyond the page shines her "spiritual clarity,' present only in those writers such as Miss Cather who love the truth with such an abiding dedication that they can tell it. And the truth of her works comes out of her life. Miss Cather's Life Born in 1874 to Anglo-Saxon parents who had long worked the soil, Willa moved with her family from her Virginia birthplace when she was nine to the exciting freedoms and promises offered by the virgin Nebraska plains. Nowhere in her essays of published fiction does she make a detectable reference to her parents other than in a_ poem, "Macon Prairie," which was published in April Twilights, a book of poetry which appeared in 1902. If the poem is to be trusted, her parents were bewildered by the irresistible "spirit of Westerning," even while being led west by the indomitable will of her dying aunt. LESSON DEPARTMENT They came, at last, to where the railway ended, The strange troop captained by a dying woman; The father, the old man of perfect silence, The mother, unresisting, broken-hearted, The gentle brother and his wife, both timid, Not knowing why they left their native hamlet; Going as in a dream, but ever going. (Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., New York, page 57. Reprinted by permission of the publishers ). It was these childhood years spent under the vast prairie sky while living among pioneers newly migrated from the Old World that gave her the themes and _ values about which her literary achievements were to be built. "That love of great spaces, of rolling, open country like the sea — it's the grand passion of my life." This she learned forever, but the sense of life, which came to have a deeper, larger origin within her, came from her great love for those common, simple folk in whom she found qualities of enduring greatness. In that decade when half a million people became sodhouse pioneers, she grew up in a pattern dominated by European influences. On Sunday she listened to sermons in French, Norwegian, and Danish. In nearby communities no English whatsoever was spoken. 'These transplanted settlers loved music and group celebrations. Grieg and Liszt still warmed their hearts. Not until her family moved to Red Cloud in her teens did Willa attend formal school. She had learned Latin from the neighbors who loved this classical tongue and discipline, as she did. With her two grandmothers she read English lit- 943 DECEMBER 1963 erature. But her most important "mines of life" were the hours she spent riding her pony about the free countryside, visiting with warmhearted Czech and Norwegian women as they baked or churned. I used to ride home in the most unreasonable state of excitement. I always felt as if they had told me so much more than they said — as if I had actually got inside another person's skin.... Their stories used to go round and round in my head at night. This was, with me, the initial impulse (Van Doren, Cart: The American Novel, The Macmillan Company, 1939, page 282. Reprinted by permission of the publishers). After graduating from high school in Red Cloud, she attended the University of Nebraska where she was editor of the literary magazine, in which her first published work appeared. After her graduation, in 1895, she became a journalist, writing first in Pittsburgh (where for a time she taught English), then later in New York City where she soon became editor of McClure's Magazine, one of the leading vehicles for the "Muckrakers," a movement of idealists and journalists who exposed widespread municipal corruptions throughout the budding nation. Although she was thus intimately associated with the grim realities of her contemporaries, she never incorporated any of these "realities" into her fiction. As time was to prove, her imagination was far too concerned with the abundant life as she saw it to permit itself to be trammeled underfoot by life's surface furnishings and trivia. In her late twenties she made the first of many trips to Europe, and throughout her life traveled widely, in later years returning most often 944 to the American Southwest. In 1911, when she was thirty-seven years of age, she resigned from her editorship to devote her full energies to creative writing. O Pioneers!, one of her most successful novels, appeared in 1913. My Antonia (1918), probably her best-loved work save perhaps for Death Comes for the Archbishop (1927), firmly established her growing reputation. Death came to Willa Cather in 1947 while she was living in New York City. During her lifetime she had written one book of poems, a book of essays, her autobiography, three collections of stories, and twelve novels. In very deed her art was her life, a conviction Miss Cather phrased well in The Song of the Lark:. What was any art but an effort to make a sheath, a mould in which to imprison for a moment the shining, elusive element which is life itself, — life hurrying past us and running away, too strong to stop, too sweet to lose? (The Song of the Lark, Houghton Mifflin Company, 1924, page 304. Reprinted by permission of the publishers). That she loved her writing and — the tools of her craft is amply proved by the above and foregoing quotations from her pen; that she honored other loves can be shown through definition and examples drawn from her works. Love of Place Alexandra Bergson, the strong, serene heroine of O Pioneers!, has shouldered the responsibility of pioneering their ranchland for her family. After making sure that the battle is won, she finally promises to marry Carl, her patient childhood sweetheart now long grown to manhood. '".. I've lived here a long time. There is great peace here, Carl, and _ freedom." "You belong to the land," Carl murmured, "as you have always said. Now more than ever."... 'They paused on the last ridge of the pasture, overlooking the house and the windmill and the stables that marked the site of John Bergson's homestead. On every side the brown waves of the earth rolled away to meet the sky. "Lou and Oscar can't see those things," said Alexandra suddenly. "Suppose I do will my land to their children, what difference will that make? The land _ belongs to the future, Carl; that's the way it seems to me. How many of the names on the county clerk's plat will be there in fifty years? I might as well try to will the sunset over there to my brother's children. We come and go, but the land is always here. And the people who love it and understand it are the people who own it — for a little while" (Catuer, Witta: O Pioneers!, Houghton Mifflin, 1938, pp. 307-308. Reprinted by permission of the publishers). Willa Cather loved a place until it became an emotion perceivable to the senses. Another example of this is found in her description of New Mexico's hot dry air, fragrant with sagebrush and sweet clover, as apprehended by Father Latour, the great central character of Death Comes for the Archbishop. (See Death Comes for the Archbishop, Alfred A. Knopf, 1927, pp. 276-277.) Love of Beauty From her childhood friendship with a German family who dearly loved German music and their great national artists, Miss Cather grew to love "the finer things," often defending them against the greedy coarseness of pioneer life, as shown LESSON DEPARTMENT in "The Sculptor's Funeral," one of her most famous short stories. Its same theme she. Later enlarged into her novel The Song of the Lark, which tells how a girl in a Colorado mining town escapes from her unsympathetic environment to find eventual fulfilment as a great singer for the Metropolitan Opera. 'This same theme is also used in her story "A Wagner Matinee." 'The story teller's aunt had left her position as a teacher at the Boston Conservatory to marry a shiftless: boy and run away to. Nebraska where they had farmed for thirty years. Now she has returned for the first time, and attends a symphony concert featuring the works of Richard Wagner. Read aloud, if available, the paragraph beginning "The first number was the 'Tannhauser" through "refuse about the kitchen door." If Miss Cather's greatness is to be explained by any one achievement, it might well be by the compassion and sympathy with which she thus writes of her fellow mortals. Gentle, kind, understanding, she sees human weakness and forgives, but more often she finds strength that triumphs — often through love. Yet in this achievement she once more exemplifies her own critical standards, for as she has written, it is the gift of sympathy, the giving of himself absolutely to his material, which enables a writer to achieve something noble and enduring. Though Miss Cather loved music and art with a lifelong passion, her own "fine thing" is her great sympathy for others, seen sharply and expressed out of her warm heart. And this beauty, along with 945 DECEMBER 1963 those already mentioned, is nicely exemplified in perhaps her most popular short story, "Neighbour Rosicky," which appears in our text. (This story is printed in Obscure Destinies, Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 1932. Excerpts are reprinted herein by permission of the publishers. ) Love of People As the story opens, Rosicky's good friend, Dr. Burleigh, has just informed him that his heart is weak and that he must stop doing all heavy duties on the farm. As he receives the news, Rosicky's contented disposition and easy manner sustain him under such a_ bitter blow. "Well, I guess you ain't got no pills fur a bad heart, Doctor Ed. I guess the only thing is fur me to git me a new one." But despite such jokes, the doctor cautions him even while reminding him how lucky he is. "... Rosicky, you are one of the few men I know who has a family he can get some comfort out of; happy dispositions, never quarrel among themselves, and they treat you right. I want to see you live a few years and enjoy them" (text, page 835). Both to others, as to the members of their own family, the Rosicky's seem entirely selfless, following the pattern of the father, as they pour forth affection, consideration, and potential wealth to insure each other's health and contentment. Without envy they watch their neighbors sell their cream and put the money in the bank, buying more land and cattle than they. But when it is suggested they turn their cream into profit by selling it to the 946 creamery, the indignant Mary is at once on the defensive. "Yes," said Mary, "and look at them Fassler children! Pale, pinched _ little things, they look like skimmed milk. I'd rather put some colour into my children's taces than put money into the bank..." "IT guess we'll do like she says,' said Rosicky. When Polly, his new daughter-inlaw, needs to get away, it is Rosicky who arranges to lend them his car, then takes over the apron and dishcloth to clean up the kitchen so the young couple can get away for the evening to enjoy each other. After they came from their bedroom all dressed in their best and looking a little stiff:... Rosicky hurried them off, and then he took his own time with the dishes. He scoured the pots and pans and put away the milk and swept the kitchen. He put some coal in the stove and shut off the draughts, so the place would be warm for them when they got home late at night. 'Then he sat down and had a pipe and listened to the clock tick (text, page 842). In his hour of contentment he plans further how he can keep his Rudolph and Polly near him on the land he loves, rather than allowing them to run away, lured by the regular salary and seeming security of the Omaha stockyards, a security which Rosicky knows is slavery when compared to owning your own land. Drought has curdled the land and Rudolph, the new husband, feels his farmer's life brings greater responsibilities than he need _ bear. But Rosicky tells him of past droughts far fiercer than any Rudolph has known, and how, when Rosicky had once discovered on the Fourth of July that his forty acres of corn had been cooked and destroyed while in the husk, his family had a picnic and really enjoyed the blessings that still were theirs. "... An' we enjoyed ourselves that year, poor as we was, an' our neighbours wasn't a bit better off for bein' miserable. Some of 'em grieved till they got poor digestions and couldn't relish what they did have" (Ibid., page 844). Rosicky then tells his family for the first time how hard his life had been as a starving tailor in London, when he became so hungry that he ate the goose his landlady had cooked the day before the family holiday and hidden in his room from her hungry children, feeling that she could trust him. Desperate in his self-condemnation and shame, he had met some fellow Czechs coming out of a restaurant, and, though he had never known them before, he had begged them, "Fellow-countrymen, for God's sake give me money enough to buy a goose!" —. Now for the first time his family understands his endless generosity. Polly begins addressing him as LESSON DEPARTMENT "Father" rather than as "Mr. Rosicky," and when soon he overexerts himself at raking thistles from his newly sown land and dies, all who loved him know he lies at peace in the simple cemetery overgrown with wild red grass surrounded by the land and people he loved. Increasingly throughout her life Miss Cather solved the pressing problems of her contemporaries by ignoring them while she re-created the noble common people out of the past into literary immortality. Always her most "real" world was that of the human spirit and the goodness and strength to endure and to be happy which she always found there. And such values were created in her own image, heightened and simplified through her selfless art. 'T'his is her highest praise. Thoughts for Discussion ~1. Though not an immigrant herself, why did Willa Cather esteem them so highly? 2. Discuss a passage from her writings as. Exemplifying the beauty which her readers have found in her characters. 3. Why did Anton Rosicky dislike large cities? Working for wages? What was his real source of strength and peace? Beulah Huish Sadleir What if | heard sleigh bells? It could be a welcome sound To complement the stillness when New snow is on the ground. 1 would hurry to the window To see the cutter glide Along the smoothly padded street Where summer pavements hide. 947 SOCIAL SCIENCE °¢ | | Divine Law and Church Government Church Government: Its Organization and Structure Lesson 12 — Church Courts (Councils of Justice), an Essential Part of Church Government Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, March 1964 Objective: Church. Justice and judgment are the habitation of thy throne: mercy and truth shall go before thy face (Psalms 89:14). For they shall be judged according to their works, and every man shall receive according to his own works (D & C 76:111). Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember them no more (D & C 58:42). Basic Philosophy Governing Human Association The most impelling and dynamic influence in this world is love. It ls the most God-like characteristic of man. It is also the most important law of life. Jesus said that the love of God and love of fellow men are basic to all the counsel and direction from heaven. Love is a social law essential to all successful human relations. Man himself is a social being. He is the product of his interaction with people and with God. He is born into a family; he grows and develops in a group experience. 'Through this experience learning takes place and he becomes familiar with the values 948 To help establish an appreciation for justice and mercy in the divine of his groups. Through the choices he makes and the cultivation of ideas he secures a place in his family, his society, and, eventually, in the kingdom of our Father. He cannot do this in isolation. The plan of salvation is based upon knowing how to live successfully with one's fellow men. 1. The Chosen and Elect. In our previous discussions it has been pointed out that the great objective — of the gospel, the real mission of — Jesus Christ, is to save mankind. — It is to bring men and women to a state of perfection whereby they can participate with comfort and assurance as the chosen and elect in the kingdom of God. The chosen and elect are those who can comprehend the wisdom of God and apply the correct formula for living as it has been developed in the design of the Creator. This in no way detracts from man's agency. 2. Salvation and Perfection. God made man in his image. Therefore, the potentials of Godhood are inherent in man. The plan of salvation includes the directions for be- coming perfect. Our degree of perfection will depend on the use we make of the divine direction, instruction, and guidance. The purpose of the Church is to save and exalt mankind. This implies giving him the opportunity for the full expression and development of his capabilities. In all its activity, the Church offers stimulation for advancement. Dr. Widtsoe says, "It should always be remembered that the Church exists to save, not to condemn men" (Program of the Church, 1941 edition, page 162). Essentials in Human Behavior To attain the perfection referred to above, there are a number of important factors that must come together in proper relationship in the hfe of each individual. In the first place, there must be an accepted way for human beings to act in relation to other human beings. Second, there must be firmness, patience, love, understanding, and consistency in teaching the socially accepted values. 'Third, the person (each person) must learn the art of self-control. The Lord has revealed the way of life which holds the greatest promise and the most direct path to perfection. 'The tenderness of a mother's love provides. The basic environment for the training process in the accepted values. The home is assisted in this training by the Church, the school, and society in general; but until the person has learned the art of self-discipline and is able to perform, to make choices that are in harmony with the law and in line with the design of the LESSON DEPARTMENT Creator, he will not achieve the desired perfection. 1. Human Error. In the process of growing up (developing and maturing), infringement upon the rights of others and disregard for accepted social values become common errors. It is the human element, undirected or misdirected, that retards the perfection of the individual. 2. Law in Church and State. Government is instituted among men to secure order and protect rights, personal and property. In the United States and in many other countries, law is established by the people. Conformity to the law brings freedom to the individual and peace and security to the group. Knowing the law is basic to being free. This is even more true in reference to divine law. 'The scripture instructs us to know the truth and it will make us free. (John 8:32.) Man's law has a tendency to exact "a pound of flesh" for the broken law. There is a common philosophy that the effective treatment for lawbreaking (crime) is punishment, physical suffering. For each infraction of the law, the offender must pay by a like infraction on his freedom or personal comfort. As a result of this philosophy, order or obedience to the law is too frequently based on fear of the punishment rather than a growth and development evidenced in action which reflects knowledge of an understanding of the purpose of law in society. 3. The Hope of Repentance. The objective of divine law is to stimulate human beings to reach up, to extend themselves, having as their ideal the perfection of the Savior. 949 DECEMBER 1963 If and when error creeps in, the divine principles of repentance and forgiveness open the way for the reformation of the — individual. Throughout the ages God has chosen great leaders to work with the wayward, calling them to repentance in an effort to bring them back to the fold. Righteousness and Perfection Related There is the element of merit in all God's dealings with human beings. Credit toward perfection is given for every good deed performed in this life. His plan is to return every soul to the kingdom of heaven. As men live near to the counsel of God, they avoid the sorrow and suffering of the social evils. Freed from these shackles they are able to produce and advance. (Read IV Nephi.) The plan of life and _ salvation teaches all men the value and benefit of righteous living. The wayward are given special attention with the hope that they will recognize their mistakes, exercise their agency, and elect to follow the design of the Creator. The laws of the land tend to banish people in their sins. The objective here seems to be punishment, not reformation or perfection. Jails are full of living testimonies of this attitude. Objectives of Church Courts The courts of the Church echo the plan of the gospel. 'They are designed to bring people to repentance. The objective of the Church courts is to bring to light the truth in the case, not to condemn and destroy, but to encourage reorienta- 950 tion of life in harmony with the eternal values of the gospel of Jesus Christ. True repentance involves recognition of error, sincere sorrow for the action, restitution for the wrong done, and turning away from the error. The real success of the Church court is attained in true repentance of the one in error. However, "sin is the transgression of the law" (I John 3:4) and God does not look upon sin with the least degree of allowance. To persist in sin produces an evil nature and will eventually destroy any claims to the mercy of heaven. The extremes of sinfulness are found in the taking of life and denying the Holy Ghost, for which there is no forgiveness. Church Punishment The most severe and far-reaching decision of the Latter-day Saints Church court is to sever the person's relationship with the kingdom of God. This court action is excommunication. It means that the person has lost all of the blessings of membership in the Church. All endowments and sealings, as well as Priesthood and membership, are broken, set aside, and nullified. While it is the duty of the court to excommunicate if the conditions warrant this action, it is also the duty of every person in the court and every member of the Church to be forgiving.. I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another; for he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for there remaineth in him the greater sin. I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men (D & C 64:9-10). However, the authorized judge in a bishop's court or other courts is required to pronounce sentence for the sins of individuals and may be in a position where he must exact severe penalties. Following judgment, every judge should have the spirit of forgiveness in his heart. 1. It Is High to Be a Judge. To be a judge requires great knowledge, great wisdom, mercy, love, and understanding. 'These are attributes of perfection. God is perfect and he is, therefore, a just judge. Those who are commissioned to act for God upon the earth, particularly in the Church courts, are expected to make their decisions motivated by the attributes of the Great Judge. As the decision is given, a program of training and encouragement for the rehabilitation of the person should begin. 2. The Successful Court. The Church courts are really successful when the person truly repents and, through decisions motivated by recognition of truth, moves toward the better life. God then becomes the final judge of the honesty and sincerity of the individual, expressed in the activity of his or her new life. Eventually, by following divine counsel, there is the possibility that former blessings may be restored. Certain blessings, however, can be restored only by the President of the Church or one of the apostles who is authorized to do-so. We must repeat again that the objective of the gospel of Jesus Christ is to save and exalt every human being. LESSON DEPARTMENT The Church exists to save and not to condemn mankind. The Limitation of Church Courts The specific function of the Church courts is to establish the worthiness or unworthiness of an accused person to hold membership in the Church. This is the only area (Church membership) over which the Church has the right of decision. One may be deprived of activity and blessings without losing membership. Action against law breakers is in the jurisdiction of the courts of the secular government. 1. Causes for Church Court Action. There are a number of offenses for which a person can be tried for his membership in the Church. They include persistence in the teaching of false doctrine; deliberate acts of disobedience to the teachings of the gospel; insubordination; and the breaking of the moral law with its many ramifications. 2. Cases for Civil Courts. In Section 42 of the Doctrine and Covenants verses 79, 84-86, specific reference is made to the type of antisocial behavior that should be turned over to the law of the land. At the same time it emphasizes the fact that for all such behavior the person is also breaking God's commandments. "And if he or she do any manner of iniquity, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law, even that of God" (D & C 42:87). The Church acts with regard to the breaking of the laws of the Lord, and the State with the laws of the land. 3. Mutual Understanding. In his teachings on the handling of anti- 951 DECEMBER 1963 social behavior, the Lord points out, first, that if there is a problem between two people, they should get together and settle their dispute or problem by mutual understanding. If they cannot agree, then they should call in the ward teachers to assist in the solution. Every effort should be made by the parties involved to settle their problem without bringing it to the Church courts. To do this successfully, both parties must be honest, sincere, and forgiving. The Lord also taught the importance and sacredness of the confidence of the repentant person, emphasizing that only the people actually involved in the problem should participate in the discussion and solution. The Value of Membership There are two penalties that the Church courts can inflict upon the members. A person, for cause, may be disfellowshipped or excommuntcated. 'To disfellowship a person means to deny him or her the privilege of participating in any office or calling the Church has, and highly restricts his or her activity. Eventually, through righteous living, he or she may be reinstated to full fellowship. Excommunication, however, removes the name of the person from the Church records and takes away all rights to Church activity and blessings. The only way back to membership for this person is through repentance and_ baptism. Certain offenders may be re-admitted to membership by the court which took the action, but others must be determined and taken care 952 of by the First Presidency and the Twelve, or at least the President of the Church or under his direction. Continued Responsibility. Membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is sacred and enduring. The covenants made in baptism, in the temple, and in accepting the Priesthood are eternal in nature. Once a member of this Church, the only way out is by court action and excommunication. However, when the covenants have been made and the ordinances performed, the responsibility never ends. The court action relieves one of the blessings, but it cannot relieve one of his knowledge of the truth. When one receives a witness of the reality of God the Father, his Son Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost, he cannot be free of the responsibility of that testimony even in excommunication. God is eternal. He is the final judge. "His purposes fail not, neither are there any who can stay his hand" (D & C 76:3). Divisions of Church Courts Normally with the Church there are three councils of justice. They are: (1) The Bishop's Court. This court is made up of the bishop and his two counselors. Their jurisdic: tion is limited to the membership of their ward. If the counselors are not available or are disqualified, the bishop may appoint one or two high priests not of the high council to sit in judgment with him. In ex ceptional cases, the stake presidency may direct the bishop to hold court in another ward. This may occur if the accused has reason to believe that a member of his own bishopric may be connected in some way with the problems involved in the case. The person could then petition the stake presidency for change of venue. The Bishop's Court can _pronounce excommunication upon lay members or Aaronic Priesthood holders who are found guilty. 'This court can only disfellowship holders of the Melchizedek Priesthood. They can, however, refer such cases to the stake high council for further action. There is a right of appeal from the Bishop's Court to the Stake High Council Court. (D & C 42:87-92; 134:10,11.) (2) The Stake High Council Court. This court is composed of twelve high priests, members of the high council, presided over by the stake presidency. It hears the appeals from the Bishop's Court, but action may also originate in this court. Only the more serious cases are brought to this court. Appeals can be made from this court to the First Presidency of the Church. (D & C i102). (3) Council of the First Presidency. The President of the Church with his two Counselors constitutes the personnel of this court. It is within the power of this court to decide any case that may arise in the Church. They may, if they consider it necessary, call other high priests to help them. A major function of this court is to review the appeals from all over the Church. The decision of this court is final. (D & C 107:79; 102:27.) (4) Courts in the Missions. The mission president has the authority within the mission under his direction to authorize a trial for the fellowship or membership of a Church LESSON DEPARTMENT member. The mission president ls responsible for the selection of the persons to serve on the council and to see that the court is conducted according to the approved pattern. The only courts within a mission authorized to sit upon a case involving the membership or fellowship of a Church member, are the elders' court called. By the mission president, in which he_ himself presides, or a branch presidency's court which sits only upon authorization of the mission president. A branch court, with full consultation with the mission president, may levy such _. Penalties as disfellowshipment upon any member, or excommunication in, eases in- _ volving women or men not holding the ~ Melchizedek Priesthood.... Where a branch court tries a holder of the Melchizedek Priesthood and it becomes necessary to excommunicate the individual the case is to be referred to the elders' court in which the mission president presides (Mission Presidents' Handbook of Instructions, page BR 14). Procedure in a Bishop's Court There are definite procedures to be carried out in properly conducting a Church tral. Each step is essential. (1) The first step is signing a complaint by an accuser witnessed by the bishop. (2) A summons is issued allowing enough time for the accused to appear. (3) The trial is opened with prayer. (4) 'The complaint is read. 'The accused is asked to state whether guilty or not guilty. (5) If guilty, judgment is pronounced. (6) If not guilty, the trial proceeds. ) Witnesses are examined to establish the truth of the charge. (8) Witnesses are examined for the defense. The accused may testify on his own behalf. (g) The evidence of each witness is written down. (10) It is then read 953 THREE PART CHORAL MUSIC FOR SINGING MOTHERS _ ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen.20. _ COME YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER—Madsen.20 >. GIVE ME YOUR TIRED, YOUR POOR—Berlin _.25 eer GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Schreiner _.30 ooo HEAVENS ARE TELLING—Haydn 00.25 i LET NOT YOUR SONG END—Cain 25 a LORD BLESS THEE AND KEEP THEE—Madsen __.20 a LORD IS MY SHEPHERD—Smart _.20 Po. LORD'S PRAYER—Robertson...22 a. O LOVE THAT WILT NOT LET ME GO—Schubert __.20 a OMNIPOTENCE—Schubert.20 ———— OPEN OUR EYES—Macfarlane.25 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah | | | Please send the music indicated | above. L] On Approval [] Charge CL] Money Enclosed | Name onic ieee cee eee ecccen cc ccenececeecenneese cece me eee ee eee ee a eee ee eae ie a a ee ee oe eee Se ee ee oe ee ee ea ee ee 15 E. Ist South | / Salt Lake City 11, Utah to the witness involved, corrected, then signed by the witness. (11) After all evidence is in, the bishopric renders its decision. (a 2) The de cision ls written on a prepared blank. (13) A copy is given to the accused. (14) If the accused holds the Melchizedek Priesthood, and the court recommends excommunication, a complete report of the trial and recommendations are sent immediately to the stake presidency. (15) All papers used in the total procedure of this court are entered in order in a special book making a complete case record of the trial. The responsibility for making the decision in the case rests on the presiding officer. He then asks for the sustaining vote of the council. Summary Church Courts or Councils of Justice are essential to personal development of offenders. They stimulate the art of discipline. 'They have a wholesome effect upon the sinner. These courts support and sustain the high ideals and values in our way of life. It should be remembered that love is the real motivation of the Priesthood and should be basic to all human association. Certainly the dispensing of justice in the Church courts should be as full of mercy as is assured by the Master, himself. References Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 42; 102; 107. Wwtsor, Joun A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapter 17. Wiwwtsor, Joun A.: Program of the Church, Chapter 2a, TarmaGE, James E.: The Articles of Faith, Chapter 23. Thoughts for Discussion 1. In what way do courts contribute to law and order? 2. What is the real evidence of repentance? 3. What is the objective of divine law? Of civil law? 4. What is the working realtionship between repentance and forgiveness? Astronaut Grace Barker Wilson He rose to meet the morning And outran the growing day; He hurried through the midnight Counting stars along the way. He glimpsed beyond the vastness Of earthly time and place The smaliness of the earth men, The mightly void of space. He drew a wider knowledge From the science path he trod, And a far greater vision Of the glory that is God. ROSE PARADE Leave December 27 Return January 3 By way of Las Vegas ——_ HAWAII Next Hawaiian Tour Depart February 1964 ———— MEXICO — 1964 — WORLD'S FAIR — 1964 Both Individual and Group Tours oe Margaret Lund T. 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 SPECIAL PRICES EFFECTIVE UNTIL JANUARY lst! Save on family food storage items! Save on gifts of preparedness! Take advantage of PermaPak's special prices on active, dry yeast for baking (3 sizes), Wesson oil, vitamin C tablets, multi-purpose food, and_ the following dehydrated products: granulated Whipp, flaked or sliced potatoes, flaked spinach and cabbage, carrot slices and maple syrup. Also, survival kits and canned water, ideal for Christmas gifts! Write for prices and shipping instructions to: PERMA'PAK PIONEERS IN PREPAREDNESS PRODUCTS 40 E. Robert Ave., Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 Salt Lake City's Newest CRAFT. SHOP & offers you all materials for * Satin Ribbon Covered Fruit * Satin Ribbon Covered Ornaments * Ribbon Chrysanthemums Write for free instructions Send self-addressed stamped envelope UTAH CRAFT and NOVELTY Complete Craft Supply Center 3002 So. State, Salt Lake City 15, Utah 955 r) & Next year, enjoy a debt-free Christmas! Join Zions Savings CHRISTMAS CLUB! Start saving a specific weekly amount now. Then when the 1964 Christmas gift season rolls around, you can pay the bills in full with cash! No installment charges to worry about and your money will have earned a big 4%%! Insured savings earn full 4/2 per year current rate compounded semi-annually 80th Anniversary — Utah's first savings and loan association ZIONS SAVINGS and Loan Association 33 E. Lst South — Salt Lake City open Fridays 'til 6:30 p. M. CCCOCHHHESEEHHEHHEESTHEHEHHHHEHEEHEHHHEFEO 4901 south State — Murray open Saturdays 'til noon (continued from page 929) Method: Grind ham and pickles on medium knife of food chopper. Combine with mustard, celery, and salad dressing. Cut top off buns and remove most of soft portion. Save crumbs for other dishes. Fill each bun with ham mixture, slightly rounding top. Sprinkle with cheese and bake in 350 degree oven for 10 to 15 minutes or until buns are hot and cheese melted and slightly crusty. Makes about 12 rolls. For other occasions regular buns may be used. Note: It is necessary to order the uncut miniature hot dog buns from the baker. When using the regular size be sure to specify that they be uncut also. CHEESE BALL 1 5-oz. Jar blue processed cheese 2 5-oz. Jars American processed pimento cheese 3-0z. Pkg. White cream cheese tbsp. Grated onion tsp. Worcestershire sauce Ya tsp. Food accent 1 ¢. Coarsely chopped pecans —_— N & pieces of chipped beef, if desired V2 ¢. Chopped parsley Method: Blend cheeses, onion, Worcestershire, and food accent with mixer until smooth Add 4 of the pecans and % c. Of the parsley. Form into a ball. Place in a bowl lined with waxed paper. Cover and chill over night. About one hour before serving, roll ball in remaining pecans and parsley or roll in torn chipped beef pieces. Place on serving dish and surround with crackers. NEVER-FAIL PASTRY 2 c. Flour 1 tbsp. Vinegar 1 «. Shortening Ya c. Cold milk 1 tsp. Salt Method: Mix flour, shortening, and salt until part of mixture is fine as cornmeal and part resembles small peas in size. An electric mixer may be used. Remove from mixer; stir vinegar into milk and add to flour mixture. Roll out very thin on floured canvas or cloth with well-floured rolling pin. Cut out circles to fit in tart pans. Prick well and bake for 10 to 12 minutes in 450 degree oven. Makes about 30 to 36 tarts, depending on size, or one large double crust pie or 2 large single-crust pies. HOLLYBERRY WASSAIL 4c. Bottled cranberry juice 2 6-0z. Cans frozen concentrated lemonade 6% c. Water 9 whole cloves 2 sticks cinnamon 2/3 ¢. Sugar Method: Mix spices, cranberry juice, and water. Bring to a rolling boil, cover, remove from heat and let stand about 3 minutes. Strain and discard spices. Add sugar and stir until dissolved. Add concentrated lemonade. Mix well. Serve hot. If desired, garnish each cup with portion of lemon or orange slice and a green cherry. Makes about 3 quarts or 24 four-ounce servings. After dessert has been served, like the last act of a play, the happy ending comes with an evening of conversation, or amusing games, sprinkled with Christmas carols and laughter with loved ones and friends. Home for the holidays —the epitome of good times, good food, good friends! Come See Our New Store Under New Management CRAFT ITEMS Plastic — Ribbon Christmas Decor Chenille — Yarn Styrofoam — Glass Artificial Flowers Leaves — Copper Jewelry Findings Candles — Felt Crystal Marbles Hat Frames — Net Ete. LET US HELP YOU TRAVEL WORRY FREE To HAWAII and SOUTH PACIFIC (New low fares) EUROPE 21 Day Excursion Tours (Save 30%) BOOK OF MORMON LAND TOUR—Jan. 16th THE HOLY LAND including Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan, Israel Turkey, Greece and italy (With Dr. T. Edgar Lyon—March 5th) HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT August '64 including World Fair in New York (With Dr. T. Edgar Lyon) (Authorized Agent for all Domestic and International Carriers) MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. (Bonded) (Your Experienced Travel Counselor) 14 South Main Street 328-3161 Salt Lake City "There is no substitute for experience' K. D. NOVELTY DISTRIBUTORS Salt Lake City — 3572 South 1950 West P. O. Box 19009 FREE CATALOGS AVAILABLE CARNIVAL & PARTY GOODS Crepe Paper — Circuits Fish Pond Items — Plates Cups — Table Coverings Balloons — Wigs — Hats Float Materials — Tickets New Year's Party Supplies Trophies — Pennants Tissue Balls, Bells, etc. Fund Raising Ideas Santa Suits — Etc. 957 ROSE PARADE TOUR 9 days — December 27-January 4 Las Vegas, San Diego and Los Angeles Including Lawrence Welk and Dinner at the Palladium, etc. Ie ROSE PARADE TOUR 10 days — December 27-January 5 Reno, San Francisco and Los Angeles Including Hearst Castle, Lawrence Welk and Dinner at the Palladium, etc. Li Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 Swistraw for SWISTRAW. If you want to be creative, use washable beautiful decorations — Christmas ornaments, topiary trees, and fruits and vegetables — all done with the Swistraw Wrap for foam shapes. Swistraw is a synthetic strand, delightful to use for crocheting handbags, hats, place mats, and for winding lampshades, weaving, embroidery and other crafts. You will receive postpaid for ONLY $1.00: e 24-yd. Skein Swistraw, matte finish © 24-yd. Skein Swistraw, brilliant finish e Detailed, illustrated color booklet on the Swistraw Wrap ® 88 actual color samples of Swistraw © Illustrated leaflet on many other Swistraw uses Dorothy Holmgren P. O. Box 17263 Salt Lake City 17, Utah 958 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles.35 1000 to 1400 miles.64 150 to 300 miles.39 1400 to 1800 miles.76 300 to 600 miles.45 Over 1800 miles.87 600 to 1000 miles.54 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 84101. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah Ida Elaine James She always was the queerest child, The neighbors used to say; The queerest, oddest, weirdest child; When she should be at play. With children who were careless, wild, Upon a romping day, She would perch upon a curb, or chair, With eyes too big and round And somewhere past their shoulders stare At what her eyes had found. She never told them alt that she Was thinking, or would hear; But all of it she told to me Who never called her queer. ? Yo you know that the Prophet Smith recorded the followg remarkable prophecy Sept. 15th 842? "Surely facts are stubborn ings — THE WORLD (the nonormons) will prove Joseph Smith 1 true Prophet " T.&S. 3:921-2 hat could be a greater thrill to ou than to see non-Mormons prove vith facts that JOSEPH SMITH yas a true Prophet? Low much do you know now about ne present day fulfillment of this reat prophecy? HLINS HdISOF pue W ANISIa une Would you like to know more? (See pages 5 to 86.) You will be delighted with this unusual volume with its easy to read maps and chart. It's the ideal Christmas Gift for every L. D. S. END FOR IT NOW! You'll be glad you did. F Clip Out This Coupon b "JOSEPH SMITH and OUR DESTINY" i "EARL W. HARMER, Publisher-Editor bd 1177 Yale Avenue, Salt Lake City 5, Utah a Please send copies to me. (PRICE $2.50 POSTPAID) - ee Enclosed Check or Money Order | I eee 1 wee ee mm mc ewe twee sccm tcc wew scene wees ane enasecnccnunes i Address i One Hundred One Mrs. KATHERINE ANN ROGERS GAUFF Wenatchee, Washington Ninety-seven Mrs. Mary GuLapys EvANS NEWMAN St. John, Utah Mrs. EVELYN Cox MOFFITT Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. FLORENCE JANE ALEXANDER CuRTIS Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. LAURA BENSON WRAY Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. OLIVE PACE SCHOETTLIN Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. LUETTA CORNWALL HANSEN Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. CHELNECHA DAMRON BARRON Incom, Idaho Mrs. EMILY JUDD TOONE Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary LINDSAY BENNION Salt Lake City, Utah 960 Mrs. Mary THOMAS Santa Monica, California Ninety-two Mrs. MAE M. LIVINGSTON Manti, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Mary E. Mmciey PERRY Salt Lake City, Utah | Mrs. SARAH LOTTIE PHYLLIPS COLLETT San Diego, California Ninety Mrs. EL1IzA EMMA THOMAS MONSON Long Beach, California Mrs. SARAH BuRR ADAMS Teasdale, Utah Mrs. BARBARA ELLEN MERRILL HAWKE Annis, Idaho Mrs. ELSIE ELEANOR OLIVER WILCOX Bridgeport, Nebraska Mrs. CELINDA JANE TWITCHELL OLSON | Evanston, Wyoming Mrs. SARAH PERRY STEVENSON Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. ANNIE WILCOX MADSEN Mt. Pleasant, Utah MRS. JEANETTE BENNION GERRARD Taylorsville, Utah FROM DESERET BOOK 1. NEW! OLD TESTAMENT, NEW LARGE PRINT AND ILLUSTRATED EDITION A new Deseret Book publication that will thrill every reader! Here is the New Testament, at last, with over 50 pages of colorful and meaningful illustrations by many prominent artists and with an attractive hard, illustrated cover. New, large type will prove a boon to both young and old makes for easier reading. $5.95 2. NEW! FASTING—THE SECOND STEP TO ETERNAL LIFE by Alan P. Johnson Why do we fast? How often should we fast? For how long should we fast? All these, and many more questions, are answered in Fasting— The Second Step to Eternal Life. The history of fasting, as well as the attitude toward fasting by many current churches, is included in this provocative book that Latter-day Saints will want to study. Ae $2.75 | Deseret Book COMPANY i 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL ie SALT LAKE CITY Ih} 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 7177 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed please find (] check [_] money order [] | have an account, t \ =! Visit the \ Deseret Book, please charge. Amount enclosed $ for the encircled numbered books: Store Nearest You for the Very Finest in | Church Literature. | ee ee See TK Ee Vayialial Walioliaiie! «\i'ct. Ol ed cof eliey cliolini (elie t=) « Le ueelic(s folio elsye le s) als sus) 6 /ege) ® 4) scious? ©) REDS 3) ata aya wo). LaZone A ey | Residents of Utah include 3'2% sales tax. SPeDIAL OFFERS! Now on the back of every 5- and 10-Ib. Bag ee, a. All you do is send in one bottom label from a U and I Sugar bag plus $1.00 and you can receive one of the wonderful premiums listed above with retail value from $2.00 to $2.25 (oe | Mirro Offers P. O. Box 500, Manitowoc, Wisconsin Enclosed is $1.00 (in cash, check or money order—no stamps) and one bottom label from any U and I Sugar bag for each of the following: [_] 15-piece cookie cutter and cake decorator set (retail value $2.25) [_] 8-piece measuring cup and spoon set (retail value $ 2.25) (] 4-piece party cake pan set (retail value $2.00) Street or RFD City Zone. State NOTE: Please allow three to four weeks for delivery This offer void in any territory where prohibited Net expires December 31, 1964 OFFER GOOD ONLY IN Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Cooky Cutter Set 15 piece copper tone Party Cake Pans 4 piece aluminum Re q 3 Measuring Spoons and Cups 8 piece copper tone ee
