Ye Ancient and Honorable Order of Midwifery. As a profession, midwifery is as old as the world. Always and ever until the last century have women presided as high priestesses in the chamber of birth. Their skill, their resourcefulness, their tact, their tender touch, all these things, together with their natural cleanliness of mind and body, fit them to assist the mother, and to cleanse and prepare the child for its entrance into the world. Not until the advent of surgery, and the further discovery of anaesthetics, and that still more wonderful re-discovery of the necessity of excessive cleanliness, in this profession, were men even allowed in the chamber. The wonderfully strict regulations which are recorded by Moses in Leviticus, convince us that he provided inspired hygienic laws for the midwives among his people. The remnants of these traditionary laws, habits and customs are found today amongst the orientals and the Indians who were upon this continent and who are the children of Israel. All these traditions demonstrate this fact: that bathing, cleanliness and scrupulous care are the principles that Moses and the Hebrews taught and practiced, and these certainly were observed by many of his descendants. In the year 1663, in the dissolute country of France, under the reign of the dissolute King Louis, when one of the royal mistresses was about to be put to bed with a child, she objected to the royal midwife attending her, as she wished it kept secret, so the royal physician, Dr. Jules Clement, was called in, and his labors were successful. He was given the title, thereafter, of Royal Accoucher. Following closely upon this were the discoveries of surgery connected with obstetrics. Surgical cases, thereafter, became naturally a part of the practice of men physicians, as they were the only surgeons. Gradually the study and practice of surgical obstetrics 
 was taken over by men; and yet not until the most recent time, have men attempted to usurp all ordinary phases of midwifery, and turn women entirely out from their ancient profession. Early in the 18th century, a German, named Semmelweiss, taught medicos the value of aseptic cleanliness. Discovery was soon made that the dreaded puerperal fever was carried by midwives — by woman to woman, through microbes, and after aseptic cleansing became popular, men added that very old-fashioned but newly discovered truth to the necessity for surgical practice, in difficult cases of child birth, and they began to practice and study the science of midwifery or obstetrics entirely. It was Sir James Young Simpson who, in 1847, first taught the value of anaesthetics, as applied to obstetrics. He introduced ether and then chloroform into the birth chamber, and thereafter the practice of using anaesthetics was established. The pangs of child-birth were so modified and lessened with this practice, that it has become more popular each year, whether for good or ill. We have a graduate who studied under Sir James Young Simpson — Grandma Hardy, whose sketch is given in this number — and the certificate signed with his name is in this state. The free use of anaesthetics has become so popular, that it is now being used in some parts of Germany to induce what is called the "Twilight Sleep," that is, to deaden the pain before and after child-birth, so that the woman is unconscious of what she is passing through. This unsafe experiment is condemned by many physicians. For unnumbered years, the regulation and supervision of the practice of midwifery was not made a subject of law. Not until well on in the 19th century was there any regulation or supervision by the European countries in regard to the practice of obstetrics and midwifery. In the 17th century, in France and Germany, towards the close of that century, there were several schools for training midwives; both these trained women mostly in the art of nursing, and simple midwifery without giving them much in regard to the science of surgery. In France, there were two classes taught, or two grades, comprising a two years' course; but even then, women were forbidden to use instruments. In Germany, women were allowed full sway under the law, but the law provided the district in which they should practice. In Russia, there were senior and junior midwives. In England, there was no regulation, by law, until 1902. In our own state, the practice of midwifery was carried on by the whole-souled women who had taken it up in their own country, or who, on arriving here, were taught by their sympathies and skill to begin the profession, which afterwards demanded so much of their time, strength and their home-life. There is no record of the lives and labors of this devoted band of women among this people. This little article is written simply as a testimonial to their names. We have been able to gather a few facts about some of this famous band of women, and yet, we wish it could have been very much more. Who can describe the patience, the loving tenderness, the indomitable faith, the carefulness, the skill, and the study necessary to prepare these women for their profession. We give here the names, and a few facts concerning one or two of this famous and notable company of women, and make this a little testimonial to their lives, labors, sacrifice and devotion. Would that we possessed more of the same type of women amongst us today. All honor to their memory, may their lives on the other side be as beautiful, as fruitful, and as glorious as they have been here. ZINA D. YOUNG. Chief among the beautiful and refined women who have served the blessed homes of this people, was the most early and the most famous and best beloved. "Aunt" Zina D. Young served without money most of the women whom she delivered. If they gave her a gift of a dollar she was grateful; but far more she prized the moist eye of gratitude, the tender hand-clasp of love, and the whispered word of sympathy. She assisted most of the Lion House mothers and nursed many of their sick children. She studied in the pioneer nurse-class of 1849 taught by Dr. Willard Richards, and well-named the "Council of Health." Think of those early men and women instituting progressive movements like that, that are even now accounted as extremely modern and up-to-date! "Aunt" Zina studied again with Dr. Mary Barker in the early seventies, and taught a nursing class in the old Exponent Office. She went about, night and day, never sparing herself, delivering women, nursing the sick, robing the dead for their last resting-place, and almost to the last years of her long life she was ready to administer the healing ordinance used by our sisters, both within and without the Temple. She was a true friend to all women, and all women loved her. PRESCENDIA L. KIMBALL. Older sister to Aunt Zina. Sister Prescendia Kimball was also a midwife in the early pioneer days. She was a magnificent woman, in appearance, stately, gracious and proportioned on heroic lines. She was a tower of strength in a sick room, and her very 
 presence inspired courage and faith. She, too, went about ministering to the sick and delivering mothers. She was a remarkable woman in every way. Among the locally famous and beloved nurses and midwives we would name: Susannah Liptrot Richards, who was graduated in English nurse-schools, and who assisted her husband, Dr. Willard Richards, both in his teaching and practice. "Aunt" Patty Sessions was perhaps the oldest and best known of them all. She delivered over one thousand women, and she was set apart in Nauvoo by the Prophet Joseph Smith himself for this work. Diantha Morley Billings was another famous Nauvoo and pioneer nurse and midwife who was also set apart by the Prophet for this work; "Mother" Angel, the mother of Sister Mary Ann Angel Young, Sister Hyde, wife of Heman Hyde, Sister Katherine Wilson, Sister Rawson, Sister Dicey Perkins, who moved to St. George, Sister Fielding, Sister Latham, Sister Ann Booth, a wonderful healer from East India, Sister Saunders and Margaret Harrington, both trained in Cumberland, England, Sister Chandler, Sister Janette Taylor, trained in Scotland; Sister Ducanson. Among the later ones were the two splendid sisters, and wives of President Joseph F. Smith, Julina L. and Edna L. Smith, Sister Higbee, and others just as devoted, just as brave and just as beloved, whose names we do not have. GRANDMA HARDIE. "Grandma Hardie," as she was affectionately known, was born in the City of Leith, Scotland, April 10, 1810. She married February 10, 1829, at Dedford near London to John Hardie, and by him she had nine children. She lost her husband on December 21, 1847. She joined the "Mormon" Church about 1845, and, with five children, came to Utah, or rather left for Utah, March 23, 1856. She walked across the plains with the famous "Handcart Company," the captain of her company being Captain Daniel McArthur. They arrived in Salt Lake City, September 27, 1856. Before leaving her native land, she had entered the University of Edinburgh, studying obstetrics, and graduated under Sir James Y. Simpson. This famous physician, whose name is a household word in all the medical circles of Europe, was one of the pioneers of obstetrics; and it was he who first demonstrated the use of ether and chloroform in Europe. He was knighted by Queen Victoria, in recognition of his service to mankind. The diploma of Sister Hardy is still in existence, and is signed by this famous physician. On reaching Salt Lake City, Sister Hardie became, at once, THE ORDER OF MIDWIFERY. one of the most popular midwives of this intermountain country. She waited upon over one thousand women, and it is said of her, 349 that she never lost a case, except one, where the mother had contracted diphtheria, from its being in the house. Sister Hardie practiced in the Lying Inn hospital, of Edinburgh, two years before she came to this country, and was popular in her own land. She was invited to become the "wet" nurse to one of the Queen's children, but she had her own little babe, and the mother refused to give up the care of her own child, even to suckle the child of a queen. The sweet, gracious features of "Grandma Hardie" her benign influence, her tender solicitude, her courage, her indomitable faith, are traditions in every home in this pioneer country. The touch of her hand was solace, the sound of her voice was music; her memory is indeed a benediction. She, herself, bore a large family, among them being: John Hardie, Mrs. Grace Young, Mrs. Agnes Lynch and the famous actor, James Hardie. She died June 2, 1872, mourned by thousands of grateful pioneer mothers and friends. There were two "Grandma Hardy's" who were both midwives, and neither were related to Mrs. Hardie from Scotland. JANET DOWNING HARDIE CAROLINE HARDIE PIONEER MIDWIVES 
 MRS. CAROLINE HARDY. Caroline Bacon Rogers Hardy was born in Norridgewalk, Maine, September 16, 1806. In her girlhood, she went with her mother and sister, to Georgetown, Mass. There she was married to Samuel B. Hardy, January 17, 1826. Mrs. Hardy lived in Georgetown about six years, then moved on a farm in East Bradford (now Groveland) Essex county. There, they were visited by "Mormon" missionaries, and embraced the gospel in 1840. Immediately after their conversion, the Hardy home became headquarters for the missionaries, and meetings were held there each Sabbath, until they went to Utah. After the martyrdom of Joseph Smith, they were visited by Wilford Woodruff. It was then that a life-long friendship was formed between Brother Woodruff and Mr. Hardy, and family. They were urged to go to Utah with other families. Accordingly, in the spring of 1850, they started in Wilford Woodruff's company, and came across the plains with ox teams. They arrived in Salt Lake City, October 12, 1850. After their arrival there, Mrs. Hardy continued the practice of obstetrics and nursing for about ten years. She then went to Dixie with her husband, who was called to help settle that country, in 1861. Mrs. Hardy spent the rest of her life, except a few years spent in Virgin City, in St. George, where she continued nursing the sick. During her years of practice, she brought into the world more than one thousand babies. It was said of her that she was very successful in her work as a nurse, scarcely losing a case. She was the mother of a large family. Her oldest son, Augustus P. Hardy, was one of the first four "Mormons" who came to Dixie as missionaries, in 1854. As long as prayer meetings were continued, they were held at the Hardy home for many years. Mrs. Hardy died in November, 1898, at the age of ninety-two years. MARTHA HARDY. "The other Sister Hardy," Martha Longfellow Foster Hardy, was born in Newbury, Mass. She was the wife of Mansel Hardy of Groveland, Mass. Mr. Hardy died in 1852. After his death Mrs. Hardy came to Salt Lake City, and was married to Samuel B. Hardy (grandpa). She practiced obstetrics there. Soon after Dixie was settled, she came to St. George, where she lived until her death, in 1868.