A PRINCE OF UR. 367 vapid and meaningless explanations of a most palpable religious fraud? You know, for you were rightly taught, as I was, by Grandfather Shem, that there is but one God in the heavens above or in the earth beneath; and he is a jealous God, who will brook no divided worship of his children. You know, or should, that there is but one way, one path, one straight and narrow road to heaven; and alas, who is walking therein in this corrupt and godless world about us? And how can you, a son of the house of Noah, speak calmly of the vile worship of the moon, practiced in this wicked city. How my heart has burned with indignation as I have seen the towers of that godless, idolatrous temple to the goddess Ishtar or Kohrah reared in this beautiful city, during the past years. It is monstrous! And you speak of thy father Nimrod's priesthood. How can you mention such a thing when you know that his father's father Ham stole the robe and the sacred garments from our fore-father's Noah's body as he lay asleep after his first great feast of worship when coming down from the Ark on the mountains of Ararat. It is he that has also stolen and corrupted the ceremonies of the temples, degrading them by introducing all the apostate forms of idol worship known to the sons of Cain. It is Nimrod that has set himself up as a god, and his poor fawning subjects whine at his feet with sickening worship. Even as if that were not enough, he is now trying to introduce into this hitherto free land the vile barbarity practiced by the Egyptians and the Accadian races about us. And I verily believe that thou — Mardan, his son — art aiding him in this awful practice of human sacrifice!" "And do you not believe in human sacrifice?" the question was asked in so simple, so innocent a way that Abram looked sharply at his distant kinsman in the gathering dusk as if to fathom the sources of his strange question. "Believe in human sacrifice?" Abram asked with deep incredulity. "What sayest thou? Do I believe in the most monstrous, degrading, loathsome superstition known to man? How can you, a son of the house of Noah ask such a question?" "Not so fast, my beloved Abram. What about the coming great Human and Divine Sacrifice? Is there not to be some Divine One who will be offered up as a sacrifice for all?" "Aye, there is to come One such God — man, glorious in His Person, the very begotten Son of God!" Abram's answer was breathed slowly and with the reverent tones of the deepest, most profound devotion. But Mardan still smiled with sly derision. "Then why all this talk and violent opposition? If it be good to offer up one Man, and he the Son of God, why not two men or any number of men, if man so pleases, and he can win the approbation of the gods thereby?" "Mardan, your talk astounds me beyond power of speech. 
 Why should we not offer human sacrifice? Because God has said that the life of all men is in His own hands. He giveth life and He only can take life. Man that sheddeth blood, by man shall his blood be shed." "Shall not the officer of the law take life when so commanded. Then why not the priest, when so commanded? If a man gives his life because he hath committed sin, why not give his life to prevent others from committing sin?" "Mardan, thou talkest like thou wert thyself a priest of Chaldea. It is thus they silence the voice of God within their own souls and make out to kill the very sources of inspiration and goodness within themselves. If thou wouldst have answer, look upon the seething corruption, the mass of festering humanity which welters in this and other cities of the world today, and find if you can a single man or woman who is not tainted with the seeds of decay and vile rottenness from the results of their sins. The women of the higher classes have long since ceased to bear children. The children of the poor and degraded come up to seize the reins of power and place. Race suicide is as common as it is acceptable. My father's household alone, and that through their long years of godly teachings, have kept themselves pure and unspotted from the sins of this world. Only the few of us who worship Jehovah are willing to keep ourselves clean from the contaminating influences of the luxurious sins about us. Let us cease this painful discourse, Mardan! I cannot believe, profligate though thou art, that thou hast sold thyself outright to the devil." Mardan saw that his kinsman was full of smoldering wrath. He dreaded an outburst of that rare anger as he dreaded nothing else in the world. So he merely stooped and with a light laugh, began trailing his white and well kept hands in the blue waters of the slowly-moving river, while he sang a temple hymn to Merodach that was quaint and charming enough, but which was addressed to the Lord of the Alabaster House, the god of Ur — Merodach — Nimrod — and the boatmen joined in with its flowing musical phrases as it was the most popular of all the many hymnals sung to Merodach. But as the beautiful words were also susceptible of interpretation as a hymn to God, Abram. and Terah before him, always allowed it to be sung in their presence. Just now, it irritated Abram like a whip of scorpions: LORD OF THE ALABASTER HOUSE. Father mine, of life the giver, cherishing all, beholding all. Lord, whose power benign extends over all in heaven and earth Thou drawest forth from heaven the seasons and the rain: Thou watchest life and yieldest showers. A PRINCE OF UR. 369 Who in heaven is high exalted? Thou, sublime in thy reign. Who on earth? Thou, sublime in thy reign. Thou revealest thy will in heaven, and celestial spirits praise thee, Thou revealest thy will below, and subduest the spirits of earth, Thy will shines in heaven like the radiant light; On earth thy deeds declare it to me. Thou, thy will, who knoweth? With what can man compare it? Lord, in heaven and earth, thou Lord of gods, none equals thee. The baby had opened its eyes with the first sound of the music and had held out its arms to Abram. But for once he was not attending. The storm that had been gathering all that eventful ride was now upon him. As the hymnal floated off into silence, Abram burst forth: "Why do I hate idolatry? And why is human sacrifice the vilest and the wickedest of all human sins? The worship of God brings virtue, peace, light, holiness and happiness. While idolatry always brings darkness and evil in its train? Look at the fruits of idol worship. Vile men, clad in purple and silken embroideries go raving about the streets of Ur as they do at Ninevah, seeking ever for fresh excitement, new pleasures. Nameless sins mark the rituals of the black art devotees who practice their secret abomination, not only in the temple fanes during the dark of the moon, but also in other secret chambers in private houses. The money of the nation is held by the few rich men who crush and grind the faces of the poor with their cruel exactions. Women, clothed upon with the cloak of hypocrisy envesture themselves as priestesses of the goddess of the moon, and they go out boldly in the faint new moonlight of the young moon, and sit on the so-called sacred pavement for viler priests, or the dissolute and riotous noblemen of the city to beckon to them and then their fate is sealed, their virtue is forever despoiled. Not only do these misguided maidens lose their all in thus parting with the pearl of great price, but they get in return an inheritance of disease and sin which goes chasing them down to the last generation of their children, if they are so cursed as to become mothers. The temples, built with so much toil and treasure, house beneath their spacious corridors the priests who rob every priestess of virtue, spoil every devotee of money, and finally hoodwink the very princes and patesi of the kingdom with their vile sorceries and witchcraft. Instead of faith, we have the basest of superstition. Instead of virtue we have the wildest lasciviousness. Instead of the sweet comforts of home and the upbringing of little children, we have the whirling dervishes of a worship that parades before the very heavens as the most stupendous apostasy that has been upon the earth since the days when God blotted out all men by the waters of His flood. 
 O, my soul is sick, and thou!" Suddenly Abram rose, while the slender boat tottered on the rippling waters with his sudden movement. Mardan cowered in his cushions. "Thou who namest these things as evidences of culture, refinement, liberty of conscience!" "And thou!" Abram's brow was wreathed with the thunders of heaven, his voice was as the Assyrian lion and his eyes flashed like the forked lightnings. "I believe that thou art the cause of much of the apostasy in our father's household. If I thought that thou hadst linked thyself with these hell-hounds of rotting priests, to bring about the destruction of the daughters of Azzi Jami, I would myself grind thee to powder. Thou miserable poltroon and murderer." It was well for them both that the rocking of the boat hindered any further demonstration. As Abram stood up the child uttered a shrill cry trying to leap to Abram's side; instead he fell overboard. In the confusion that followed his being hauled out, the bitter conversation was ended between the kinsmen. But Mardan would never forget, nor would Abram. As Abram drew the little one into the boat, regardless of its wet garments, he bent soothingly above the trembling little body and bade the oarsmen make straight for the shore. Abram had discovered another evidence of Mardan's treachery and corruption, while Mardan knew once and forever that his elder kinsman was as incorruptible as the pillars of heaven. Abram turned his face to the palace gates directing a slave to carry the child to the palace; the little naked body now wrapped in his own abaya. Abraham took his way towards the City of Ur. (to be continued) NO ENEMIES. "You have no enemies; alas, my friend, the boast is poor. He who has mingled in the fray of duty that the brave endure, Must have made foes. If you have none, small is the work that you have done; You've hit no traitor on the hip; You've dashed no cup from the perjured lip; You've never turned the wrong to right; You've been a coward in the fight. You have no enemies." — Selected.