		WOMAN IN MEDICINE.

	It is now thirty-three years since the first
diploma as  doctor of medicine was given to a
woman, Elizabeth Blackwell having conceived
the idea of competing with men in the care of
the sick as a physician, succeeding after some
years of struggle, in being admitted into a reg-
ular medical college for men, in Geneva, New
York from which she graduated in 1849:
	Through the favor of some prominent phys-
icians, she had opportunity for practical obser-
vation in Europe, and in 1851 she returned
and settled in New York. In 1853 I arrived
in America, having similar views and plans,
and soon became connected with her move-
ment; thus I can claim to be one of the pio-
neer physicians of America.
	Dr. Blackwell's course excited great interest
all over the world, and in Philadelphia a Med-
ical School for Women was started at once;
that is thirty-two years ago. It received aid
cheifly from the Quakers, who also a few years
later started a hospital.
	The New York Infirmary for Indigent
Women was chartered by Dr. Blackwell twen-
ty-nine years ago, and has opened since a good
medical college for women.
	The Chicago Hospital (Medical School for
Women subsequently added) is sixteen years
old.
	The University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
opened its doors to women medical students
about ten years ago. In some of the other
States, also, the medical schools now admit
women.
	From America, the movement has extended
to Europe, and the medical schools of the Uni-
versity of Zurich, of Paris, and lately of Lon-
don and of Dublin, graduate women students
on the same terms as men. Thus opportunities
to test the willingness of women to study, and
their capacity for practice in this branch of
science, are increasing everywhere. Still oppo-
sition awaits those engaged in the profession,
both as teachers and practitioners - the pioneer
work is not yet done - and I can only express
the wish that an opposition may continue to
exist for at least sixty years longer.
	It is only by overcoming obstacles, by pene-
trating and removing difficulties, that this re-
form will prove itself to be grounded on a
solid foundation in the very nature of woman,
and will lose its social phenomenal character,
All womankind ought to congratulate them-
selves, that the help given by men has not
been more general;  that what has thus far been
accomplished, has been chiefly done by women
in opposition to men.
	If women shall succeed in holding their po-
sition, as practitioners and scientists, for the
next fifty years, as they have done for the past
thirty-three  years, then it will be proved that
it lies in a woman's nature, just as much as in
a man's to educate whatever faculties, to de-
velop whatever talents she may be endowed
with. For all I demand as the right of woman
is free play for doing what is in her nature to
do; and if she feels she cannot apply herself to
anything else but the study and practice of
medicine, all I ask is plenty of opportunity to
fit herself through education, for that purpose,
and afterwards a chance to try her capacity as
practitioner.
	So far, women have developed well in every
branch of medical science, and compete with
men in general practice, in obstetrics, and in
surgery- We can show you as excellent
women surgeons as there are men surgeons, and
we are beginning to have also good writers as

[Column 2]
well as women scientists, both here in America
and in England.
	Therefore, let us proudly say the women
physicians are among the best practical woman's
rights women. [Applause.]


