	FOUNTAIN GREEN PRIMARY.
	Yesterday was a grand gala day here for
both young and old; the occasion being the
first Primary Fair held in this place. All were
out in full force and beaming smiles. The Fair
was held in Fountain Green Social Hall, which
was freely tendered for the event.
There was a large display of articles that
were both useful and beautiful.
Confectionery.--Pies, tarts and cakes of all
descriptions. A plate of frosted pasties, by
Miss N. Holman, aged eleven, was very good;
as was also a pound of butter by Miss Rozilla
Crowther, same age.
 On the next table was a very creditable dis-
play of Knitted Goods. A pair of baby shoes,
by Miss Clara Collard, aged 11; a knitted
shawl, Miss Christine Smith, aged 12; a com-
forter of the same material, Hannah Skeen,
aged 12; a pair of hose, Miss M. Adams, aged
12, and fancy open work hose, Miss Annie
Neilson, aged 15.
 The next table or stand was devoted to
Plain Sewing, by hand. Amongst the articles
of merit was an apron, by Miss Annie Turkle-
son, aged 12, and a large variety of patchwork;
quilts and blocks, some the work of very tiny
hands. Samples by Miss E. J. Curtis, aged 5,
and several other little toddlers, about the
same age.
 Crochet Work.--A large assortment was
put forward for inspection and criticism, con-
sisting of tidies and lace of every description.
Those that deserve honorable mention in this
branch are Maria Jacobson, aged 11, Rozilla
Crowther, same age, and Miss A. Neilson, aged
15.
Sampler Work and Designs in Woll and
Zaphyr,-- on beholding which, carried us back
to the days of yore, when our mothers used to
amuse themselves in the same kind of fancy
work, Some of the designs were neat and
tasteful. The Ten Commandments, by Miss
Ada Guyman, aged 14, was a very fair speci-
men. A sample worked by Miss Annie Tur-
kleson, aged 12, was also very good.
Embroidery.-- In this department, the Misses
Caroline Otterson and S. E. Collard, aged re-
spectively 12 and 15, displayed not only good
taste, but originality of design, combined with
excellent workmanship. Hearth-rugs, ingeni-
ously contrived and put together in good taste
and style; they were made by Misses Stena
Jacobson and S. A. Aldread, aged 8 and 12.
Zephyr Flowers.-- A very large display of
wool flowers, of all hues, shapes and sizes;
some in baskets, vases and cases; all were
beautiful and well made. The little folks that
made them may well feel proud of this their
first effort.
Hair Work.-- Miss Eliza Bischoff's exhibit
was really very good.
Boys' Handiwork.-- I cannot begin to enu-
merate them, there was such a large display.
There were models of easy running wagons,
harrows of all shapes and sizes, ladders,
shovels, grindstones, and specimens of ama-
teur printing. The grindstone, by Master
Lewis Woodward, aged 12, was a very good
model. A well made square harrow, by Mas-
ter Tom Oldroyd, aged 13; model for violin, by
J. F. Wakefield, aged 10, and a whole host of
clever contrivances by the boys.
	The committee of arrangements were Mes-
dames Hannah Collard, Laura Morgan, Mary
Ann Anderson, Catherine Sorensen, Maria
Christiansen, Maria Bischoff, Jane Crowther
and Mary Guyman, assisted by Aunt Polly
Johnson, Aunt Jane Woodward and Mrs. Mer-
cie Ivry.
		Miss Annie Anderson, Secretary.
		Miss. S. E. Collard, Assistant Secy'

