ROGERS, SMITH D. ROGERS AND OTHERS.

We were living in Nauvoo when I first
heard that it was right for men to have two 
wives. I never thought then of their having 
more than two; it looked an awful thing to
me, and I said that I would not believe it was
right, if an angel from heaven should tell me
so, And agian, I said that if I should hear
the Almightly tell an engle to come and tell
me it was right, I would not believe it. I knew
very well what I thought. I thought it would
only be to try my virtue, as Abraham's faith
was tried, when he was told to offer his son as a
sacrifice, and I thought the Lord would love me
better if I refused to believe in such a heinous
thing, for the Lord loves virtuous women.
	I was very busy at that time, for we were
preparing to go to the wilderness (that was
what we called it then). I do not think I had
at that time heard of the valleys of the moun-
tains, but we termed it going to the wilderness.
My daughters and I were very busy, parching 
corn, stewing squash for drying, and weaving
cloth. In all my preparations I did not have
time to go round and get the news of the day,
but Sister Thompson and Sister Carmichael
used to come and tell me what the folks were
talking about, and who of the brethren had
taken another wife. I told them not be be-
lieve a word of it for I knew the authorities
of the Church would put it down. They would
say, "You may look out, for your husband is
sure to get another." Sister Carmichael said,
"If it is so, I know William (her husband) will
take another wife, for he will do anything the
authorities tell him is right." "But," she ad-
ded, "I will go down and talk with Sister Mur-
ray about it." Sister Murray was Bro. Young's
sister. In a few days she came again, having 
in the meantime seen Sister Murray, and asked
if it was true that the brethren were taking
more wives,  to which Sister Murray had replied
that it was too true. When I heard this, I 
was perplexed; I didn not have much to say. I 
felt very serious over it, and made it a matter
of prayer.
	On the Sunday morning following, after my
husband and I were ready to go to meeting, we 
walked out through our gate, and he said, "Let
us call in at John's (his brother's); perhaps 
some of them will go to the meeting." As we
passed through the gate, all creation was
opened in vision to my view, as it seemed to me;
we were as the grass of the field. I can see
now how it looked as it ran off in the distance.
Then I saw plurality of wives, the celestial or-
der of marriage, open to my view, and knew it 
was right, and a virtuous principle, and per-
taining to the everlasting Gospel of Jesus.
Then I saw the authorities of the Church, and
what they had suffered to establish this peculiar
doctrine. It was a grand point in the Gospel,
and had to be established in this generation;
there was no getting around it, it had to come
forth. When I saw the labors of the brethren,
and their toils and sufferings, my heart was
pained for them, and I loved and pitied them.
I was no longer an opposer of  these things, but
pondered them in my heart. I realized the
beauty and glory and exaltation connected
with this heavenly principle; it was grand and
glorious, and I felt rapt in joy. I repented
of my former unbelief, and went forth and was
baptized for the remission of my sins in that
respect, though at that time I did not confess
to any person what the sin was, for the remis-
sion of which I was baptized.


It is not calling your neighbors' names that
settles a question.- Disrael.﻿


