MODERN ELECTRICITY.

	We read in the morning papers of Tuesday
the telegraphic news that "Admiral Semour
opened fire upon the forts at Alexandria at 9
o'clock this morning," which, calculating the
difference in time, was actually put to press by
every morning paper in every city in this
country in two hours after the bombardment
commenced.
	The transmission of the first message over
the wires between Baltimore and Washington
was an achievement so wonderful that it was
heralded around the globe. The laying of the
first cable across the Atlantic, in 1858, laughed
at and derided by wise men as impracticable
and impossible, was accomplished. And after
our Chief Magistrate and the Queen of Eng-
land had exchanged congratulations over the
great achievement, the cable parted, and there
were sad faces, and croakers said, "I told you
so." But those who were engaged in the en-
terprise did not lose courage; the broken ends
were recovered from the ocean's bed and re-
united, and, to-day, the laying of a cable across
the oceans and the seas excites a simple news-
paper paragraph of a dozen lines. Now the
whole habitable globe is linked together by a
network of wires; revolutionizing trade, com-
merce, exchange and all our methods of doing
business. Instead of waiting nine or ten
months for an answer to the letter to our cor-
respondent in Calcutta, we converse with him
almost as easy as with the customers in our
stores and countingrooms.
	Webster, in that magnificent passage descrip-
tive of the power of England, said, "A power
which has dotted over the surface of the whole
globe with her possessions and military ports,
whose morning drumbeat following the sun and
keeping company with the hours, circles the
earth with one continuous and unbroken strain
of the martial airs of England."
	Not only does her "drumbeat follow the sun
and keep company with the hours," but, to-
day, the long roll that calls her battalions to
the field on the plains of India, or her sailors
to their guns before the forts of Alexandria,
has hardly ceased before its vibrations are
heard the world around, and every newspaper
in the land heralds on its bulletins the details
of the fight before the smoke of battle has
passed away. And all this has been accom-
plished in less than a quarter of a century, ac-
tually within a single decade from the laying
of the first cable. Who will venture to pre-
dict what the next twenty-five years shall re-
veal in the application of this wonderful, mys-
terious, unseen and incomprehensible power?—J.
C. P., in The Watchman, Boston.


A girl who can put a square patch on a pair
of pantaloons may not be so accomplished as
one who can work on a green worsted dog on a
yellow ground, but she is of more real value in
the community.
What a blessing to the household is a merry,
cheerful woman- one whose spirits are not af-
fected by wet days and little disappointments,
and whose milk of human kindness does not
sour in the sunshine of human prosperity.
Such a woman, in the darkest hours, brightens
the house like a piece of sunshiny weather.
The children go to school with a sense of some-
thing great to be achieved; husband goes out
into, the world in a conqueror's spirit. No mat-
ter how he is annoyed abroad, at home he is
sure to find rest.


