RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
The quarterly conference of the Relief Society,
Salt Lake Stake, convened in the 14th Ward
Assembly Rooms, June 16, Counselor Elmina S.
Taylor, presiding, in the absence of Sister Home
who was unable to attend. After usual exer-
cises, minutes of previous Conference were read
and accepted, and twenty-three branches of the
R. S. were reported, by the Presidents, or one
of the Counselors; after which Mrs. E. S. Tay-
lor made some appropriate remarks. Singing
and benediction and Conference adjourned until
2 o’clock p.m.
	Afternoon Session: After preliminary exer-
cises, speeches were made by Sisters E. S. Tay-
lor and P. L. Kimball, on the duties of women
and the privileges of the Gospel. Dr. Elvira S.
Barney was the next speaker. She gave a most
interesting account of her experiences during
her three years, absence in the East studying
medicine and surgery, said it made her heart
ache to see the condition the world was in. She
had sought diligently to prepare herself for use-
fulness in the profession she had chosen, and
was rejoiced to be at home once more among
the Saints. 
 Dr Romania B. Pratt spoke of her few
months' absence in the East and her great joy
in returning home again; that Utah was the
dearest place on earth to her, alluded to the
great divines of the day and their preaching,
said she could realize they had not the light of
the Gospel. she went to hear Henry War


Beecher and spoke of the absurd ideas he
taught and his ignorance of the true light.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp spoke upon faith and
washing and anointing of the sick; appreciated
the remarks of Dr. Pratt, as she had been placed
in similar circumstances herself.
Mrs. S. M. Kimball made a few suggestive
remarks and expressed her pleasuse in having
today physicians among our own people.
Mrs. Phebe Woodruff, in addressing the con-
gregation, spoko earnestly In reference to the
Deseret Hospital, which was being established
by the Latter-day Saints, and appealed to these
present to take an interest in this benevolent
work. She also spoke of the benefit of the
washings and anointings for the sick.
	President Wilford Woodruff spoke very en-
couraging to the sisters, both in regard to the
duties and responsibilities which necessarily
 devolve upon them and also of the adminlstra-
tion to the sick and afflicted. Referred to the
Deseret Hospital and the work of benevolence
and charity expected of the Relief Society.
Spoke of the union of man and woman in all
things and how necessary it was they should
co-operate together; the influence of mothers,
the training of children, the work for the dead
and many other interesting themes.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor then presented the subject
of the Hospital in a very earnest and effective
manner. Urged the sisters to become members
by paying one dollar annually and have their
names enrolled with those engaged in this noble
work.
	Mrs. M. A. Freeze announced that the Con-
ference of Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A., would be
held next day June 17, in the Assembly Hall.
Conference adjourned for three months. Sing-
lng, “The Spirit of God, etc." Benediction by
President Woodruff.


