A SAD EVENT.

"There is no flock, however watched and tended,
	But one dead lamb is there!
There is no fireside, howsoe'er defended,
	But has one vacant chair."

	Died in Salt Lake City, at the residence of
Major W. W. Woods, at five minutes to five
Sunday afternoon, July 23, 1882, Leslie Alma
Dunford, aged 10 years, 2 months, and 23 days.
Deceased was the son of Mrs. Woods by a former
marriage, and was born in this city April 30,
1872. He was the grandson of Bishop Newel
K. Whitney (deceased) and of Mrs. E. B. Wells.
He was a bright, active and interesting boy,
manly in his bearing and most tender and affec-
tionate in his disposition. He was spiritual in
his nature, loved to hear of heaven and the Sa-
vior, and was fondly attached to his relatives,
to whom he was ever obedient, respectful and
obliging, ready to render any little service in his
power. His death was the result of an accident
with a toy pistol, with which he was slightly
wounded in the hand on the 4th of July last.
The most careful attention was given to the
wound, which appeared to be doing well, and he
showed no symptoms of the terrible affliction
until about twelve days after the accident, when
he was attacked with lockjaw and paralysis. The
little fellow suffered inexpressible agony day
and night for a week. He was brave, patient
and uncomplaining, never murmuring even
in the most extreme pain. His mother was
constantly at his bedside, watchful and hopeful
until a short time before his death. The shock
was a severe one to her and to his little sisters,
and to all his relatives, for he was tenderly be-
loved. But he has gone where there is no more
pain, nor sorrow, nor suffering forevermore;
where the flowers he so loved and appreciated will
bloom eternally in the gardens of paradise, and
music, in which he found the greatest delight,
will fill his soul with melody and joy unspeaka-
ble. We know that he has passed from death
unto life and we should not call him back, yet
our poor human hearts will bleed for a time at
his absence, for as the poet says:

"That loss is common would not make
My own less bitter, rather more;
Too common! Never morning wore
To evening, but some heart did break."


