NOTES AND NEWS.
Iowa and Kansas are doing good and effec-
tive work for the enfranchisement of woman.
"Woman suffrage work in Nebraska has
awakened such a positive interest in all parts
of the State that it looks as though they 
would succeed in giving to woman equal politi-
cal rights.
A mass meeting of woman suffragists of
Ohio will be held in the Murphy Tabernacle,
Third Street, Columbus, O., on Wednesday,
August 2d, for the purpose of organizing the
Woman Suffrage Association of Ohio, which
is auxiliary to the American.
A husband advertised in the Sheffield "Daily
Telegraph," England, that he, Thomas A---, 
would no longer be answerable for the debts
incurred by his wife. The wife retorted: "This
is to certify that I, Elizabeth A----, am able
to pay my own depts, now that I have got shut
of Tommy."
It is said that Queen Victoria at Balmoral
recieves about fourty telegrams in a day. She
sits up until one o' clock in the morning,
reading them and writing, and at eight
o'clock resumes her daily duties. The Queen
is never idle; her example for industry might
well be imitated by those in the ordinary walks
of life. 
Victor Hugo has a daughter, Adele, in a pri-
vate insane asylum near Paris. She is about
50 years old and is said to resemble the por-
trait of Madame Hugo, by Johnnot. She is
very proud of her father's fame, and repeats his
poems from memory. The story of her misfor-
tune is, she married a young naval officer with-
out the consent of her father; he deserted her
and left her penniless and without proof of the
legality of her marriage.
Women should understand that no beauty
has any charms but the inward one of the
mind, and that a gracefulness in the manners
is much more engaging than that of their per-
sons; that meekness and modesty are the true
and lasting ornaments; for she that has these is
qualified as she ought to be for the manage-
ment of a family, for the education of her chil-
dren, for an affection for her husband, and
submitting to a prudent way of living. These
only are the charms that render wives amiable,
and give them the best title to respect.
In his lecture recently delievered in New
York, in connection with the silk exhibition,
Mr. Herman Rocke pointed out the possibilites
of silk culture in this country. Before the lec-
ture the guests visited the tables covered with
silk worms in all stages of life, from the egg to
the butterfly, while a Japanese boy was reeling
off the silk from the cocoon, and the weaving
process was going on at the loom. Since the
opening of the exhibition there has been added
a large number of the various kinds of worms,
and the hall has been decorated with Japanese
pictures representing the silk culture in that
country. The object of the exhibition, the lec-
turer said, was to show what could be done in
silk culture in this country. The vast sums of
money leaving this country could all be kept
here. There were mulberry trees enough that
would give food to the worms sufficently to
produce all the silk needed. It was easy work,
the speaker added, for the children to take
part in, by feeding and watching over the
worms. He said that France was able, in a 
large degree, to pay her great dept incurred in
the Fran co-Prussian war, through the part the
children took in the silk culture. In conclu-
sion, he predicted a large growth in silkworm
culture and silk manufacturing in this country
within a few years. - Scranton Republican.


