SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.
	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	With all the false traditions in which we
were born, and in consequence of the degener-
ate tide with which the human family have
been drifting for generations past, and as the
Lord had no organized Priesthood on the earth,
it is not to be wondered at that in our ignor-
ance of His ways the feelings of our natures
should rebel against the doctrine of a plurality
of wives. I remember how I felt, but which
would be a difficult matter to describe—the
various thoughts, fears and temptations that
flashed through my mind when the principle
was first introduced to me by my father, who
one morning in the summer of 1843, without
any preliminaries, asked me if I would believe
him if he told me that it was right for married
men to take other wives, can be better ima-
gined than told; but suffice it to say the first
impulse was anger, for I thought he had, only
said it to test my virtue as I had heard that
tales of this kind had been published by such
characters  as the Higbees, Foster and Bennett,
but which I supposed were without any foun-
dation. My sensibilities were painfully touched.
I felt such a sense of personal injury and dis-
pleasure; for to mention such a thing to me I
thought altogether unworthy of my father,
and as quick as he spoke, I replied to him,
short and emphatically, No, I wouldn’t! I had
always been taught to believe it a heinous
crime, improper and unnatural, and I indig-
nantly resented it. This was the first time that
I ever openly manifested anger towards him;
but I was somewhat surprised at his counten-
ance, as he seemed rather pleased than other-
wise. Then he commenced talking seriously,
and reasoned and explained the principle, and
why it was again to be established upon the
earth, etc., but did not tell me then that any
one had yet practiced it, but left me to reflect
upon it for the next twenty-four hours, during
which time I was filled with various and con-
flicting ideas. I was sceptical-one minute
believed, then doubted. I thought of the love
and tenderness that he felt for his only, daugh-
ter, and I knew that he would not cast her
off, and this was the only convincing proof
that I had of its being right. I knew that he
loved me too well to teach me anything that
was not strictly pure virtuous and exalting in
its tendencies; and no one else could have in-
fluenced me at that time or brought me to ac-
cept of a doctrine so utterly repugnant and so
contrary to all of our former ideas and tradi-
tions. This was just previous to his starting
upon his last mission but one to the Eastern
States. Fearing that I might hear it from a
wrong source, knowing, as he did, that there
were those who would run before they were
sent, and some would not hesitate to deceive
and betray him and the brethren, he thought it
best that I should hear it from his own lips.
	The next day the Prophet called at our
house, and I sat with my father and mother
and heard him teach the principle and explain
it more fully, and I believed it, but I had no
proofs only his and my father's testimony. I
thought that sufficient, and did not deem it ne-
cessary to seek for any further, but had I been
differently situated like many were without a
father and a mother to love and counsel me,
probably my dependence, like theirs, would
have been on the Lord, but I leaned not upon
His arm. My father was my teacher and reve-
lator, and I saw no necessity then for further
testimony; but in after years the Lord, in His
far-seeing and infinite mercy, suffered me to
pass through the rough waves of experience,
and in sorrow and affliction, I learned,
this most important lesson, that in
Him alone must I trust, and not in weak and
and sinful man; and that it was absolutely ne-
cessary for each one to obtain a living witness
and testimony for him or herself, and not for
another, to the truth of this latter-day work, to
be able to stand, and that like Saul, we “must
suffer for His name’s sake.” Then I learned
that “The fear of the Lord is the beginning of
knowledge;” and that “He is nigh unto all
those that call upon Him in truth, and healeth
the broken in heart and bindeth up their
wounds.”
	In a few days from this, my father started
for the Eastern States. My baby brother had
been very sick and was barely convalescent
when he left.
	He wrote me from Pittsburg, that was more
than forty years ago; and though his letters
are now worn and yellow with age, and the
fingers that wrote them are laid under the cold
and senseless turf, yet the sublime truths,
though taught in simple words, will never per-
ish, no, never; and often as I read them, I drop
a silent tear and am led to say:
	“I owe thee much. Thou hast deserved from me
	Far, far beyond what I can ever pay.”
	Here is a copy of the letter written me from
Pittsburg, July 10th, 1843:
	“My Dear Helen.—I still remember what I
told you when I left home, that I would write
you. You have been on my mind much since
I left home, and also your dear mother, who
has the first place in my heart, then my dear
children and brethren and sisters who have
passed through much sorrow and pain for the
cause of Christ.
	“My dear daughter, what shall I say to you?
I will tell you, learn to be meek and gentle,
and let your heart seek after wisdom, and al-
ways speak kindly to your dear mother and
listen to her counsel while you have her with
you, for there is no one that feels the care for
you that she does.  My child, remember the
care that your dear father and mother have for
your welfare in this life, that all may be done
well, and that in view of eternal worlds, for
that will depend upon what we do here, and
how we do it; for all things are sacred. God
knows my heart and how I feel for my dear
family. My prayer is that he will incline our
hearts to serve him all the days that we shall
live on the earth and our children after us
through all eternity, that none of them may


[Column 1]
ever swerve from these fixed principles of vir-
tue and to be endowed with the wisdom of God,
and to be kind and merciful to all the human
family, as far as mercy can have any claim on
the souls of men; so let our love abound. As
we measure to the human family, so it must be
crowned upon our heads, either in time or in
eternity. It is always time to do good, and as
to wrath we will measure that out as God shall
direct, and not as we will, for God says, 'Ven-
geance is mine, and I will repay.'
	"Let us seek to be true to our integrity,
wherever we shall make vows or covenants with
each other; then we have got in that narrow
way that leads to eternal life. Now let us be
careful that we do not make a breach, but let
us learn by the things that we see others suffer,
and not have to pass through them ourselves.
You have some experience, and you see others
walking through trouble and sorrow, because
those who have covenanted to be their friends
have betrayed them; for instance, look and see
what the Prophet has to pass through. This
comes upon him because of the treachery of
some who have promised to be his friends and
the friends of God. We should have no trou-
ble if it were not for such persons. They make
league with our enemies, Judas like.
	"Oh, God, save me and my posterity from
treachery, and let our hearts be filled with true
integrity and benevolence to the human family;
if we have ever varied from these principles,
forgive and give us light to walk into the light,
as thou, oh, God, art in the light. Our hearts
are known unto thee, and we desire to continue
in thee, as the branch cannot bring forth fruit
except it abide in the vine, no more can we, ex-
cept we abide in thee. Save us from our ene-
mies, and let us live long and do much good,
and see thy work prosper and spread forth on
the right and on the left, and see our enemies
fall and come to naught. Now, Father, I ask
these things in the name of Jesus Christ.
Amen.
	"I have written as it has come to me. I
think this is the first that I have written to
you. I hope it may not be the last. I hope
we shall live to see many good days, and be a 
comfort to those of our kindred who have not
yet come to the light of the Gospel as we have.
I have a longing desire to live many years and
live that life that becomes a man of my profes-
sion, which is an apostle. I hope that I may
live in honor of this title, that it may be
handed down with delight by my posterity
which shall follow me. Now, my dear Helen,pray
for your dear father, that he may have strength
to fight the fight of faith and win the prize and
come off with honor in the sight of God, angels
and men.
	"Now, Helen, study to be a comfort to all
who are connected to us by the ties of nature,
and also to those who have received the Gospel
of Christ. Be a pattern of good works, and
let your locks go down with honor. Envy no
one, though they may think they are far above
you. Now, listen with care and be meek, and
no good thing shall be withheld either in time
or in eternity, and you shall shine forth as the
sun at noon day. Seek to be a comfort to your
parents, brothers and sisters, and to your
friends and connections, and all who love our
Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Probably I
have said enough upon this subject at this
time.
	"My health was tolerably good till I got to
Cincinnati, then I had symptoms of chills.	*
*	*	I was introduced to a very respect-
able family by the name of Baker, who were
Baptists. They were very kind to me and my
brethren. There was an English lady living
with them as a governess to their daughters, in-
structing them in education and taught them
to play on the piano.
	"While I was there, she was taken sick and
lay nigh unto death. She told me she could

[Column 2]
not live, but told Mrs. Baker that she would
like to have me pray for her. I did as she had
requested, and went back to my room, where
I found Elder Pratt. In about twenty minutes,
she came to our door and said she was well.
She left the house and went around telling the
people what had been done. After I had gone
to bed, I was called up by Mr. Baker, as his
daughter was very sick. I laid hands upon her
and she was healed and went to sleep. She
was well in the morning, and they were all be-
lieving. I baptized Mr. Baker and his daugh-
ter before I left.
	"We reached this place on the first day of
July. I was taken with influenza. It
seemed to me I could not endure it, my lungs
were so bad; have not seen one well day since
I came here. Elder Snow took it while on the
boat, Elder Pratt also.
	"Last night I was taken with the cholera
morbus. It seemed to me as though I could
not live till morning. There were three breth-
ren with me a good part of the night..	*	*
*	If you will examine the papers, you will
find that this complaint is raging through the
East. Elder Page is sick with it. There have
been five baptized. They are a good people
here. I think we shall leave this week for
Philadelphia.	*	*	*	We are very
sorry that Elder B. Young does not come on.
	"We have had some hints that Brother Jo-
seph is taken with another writ. I wish that I
could know.	*	*	*	I expect that
I shall find a letter at Philadelphia and get
the news.
	"I received a letter from your mother by
Phineas, and was glad to get it. I have read
it until it is almost worn out. Will write to
her in a few days; have not been able to write
before for some time; my head was so dizzy
and I felt very poorly. I wrote one to Wil-
liam, and hope that he has received it. Tell
your mother to write without fail.	*	*
*	I hope to soon hear from poor William.
How I long to hear from my dear family, for I
love them with a perfect love, and there is no
other thing that could induce me to leave
them but the cause of Christ. That is all to
us, for it is our meat and our drink to do the
will of the Father in heaven.
	"Now my dear child, be humble, and pray
for your dear parents, that they may have
strength to win their way through with honor
and integrity before God, angels and men; that
we may be crowned together in the eternal
worlds, where we shall never part, where pain
and sorrow and grief shall not be known;
where we can enjoy the society of our dear
children and friends throughout all eternities.
	"Now, Helen, kiss your dear mother for me,
and tell her to kiss the dear little babe for me.
I can hardly think of him without weeping. I
received the little lock of hair she sent me
and carry it in my pocket.	*	*	*
Give my love to Bishop Whitney and family,
and to Sarah Noon. Tell her to be of good
cheer, and also Brother and Sister Billings,
and all that inquire for me.
	"If you should see President Smith,give my
kindest love to him. I hope that he is not in
the hands of his enemies; if so, God will deliver
him.	*	*	*
	"My everlasting love to your dear mother
and the children.
	"As ever, your dear father in Christ to his
daughter in Christ,
