MESA CITY.

	Perhaps but few are aware that we have a
Relief Society organization in this isolated
country, as but very few reports have ever been
sent from Mesa City. Our first conference was
held March 11th, and a report was prepared
and sent by our secretary, but for some reason
it never appeared in the EXPONENT. We have
quite a number of names enrolled as members, 
but have not accomplished much financially,
in consequence of but few seeming to take an 
interest in the success of our society; this
makes it rather discouraging for those who
want to be workers in the hive. But out of the
books we shall be judged. We have made a
few quilts, but in a country like this, where
the thermometer runs up to 115 degrees, the
making of bedquilts is rather an unprofitable
business. We are also making a very nice
quilt, which we design as a Temple donation,
and although there are but a few of us, we can
see that we are improving both spiritually and
temporally.
	We have a good, faithful President, who en-
deavors to perform her duties faithfully, and is
well beloved by the Society.
	We are not so highly favored as our sisters
in Utah, in having the presence, frequently, of
those true and noble sisters, Eliza R. and
Sister Zina, with their zealous co-
workers, who seem to be spending their lives
in the great and glorious work, which has been
allotted to them to show woman her true and
proper sphere in the great work of the last
days, and may the blessing of high heaven at-
tend them in their labors; and rest assured, if
any of them should ever visit this country,they
would meet with a warm welcome (perhaps
rather too warm, unless they came in the win-
ter). The EXPONENT helps to supply this
want in a great measure. We can read ac-
counts of their glorious meetings and almost
imagine ourselves there; therefore it is always
a welcome visitor. 
	Everybody enjoys this climate when they
once get accustomed to it. We have about 10
months of the most agreeable climate in the
world, to balance against about two months of
very warm weather, and even then we fre-
quently have nice cool afternoon breezes,
which serve to help us out admirably. It is a
very healthy country, which is saying a great
deal in its favor. There is not a case of sick-
ness on the Mesa, that I am aware of. 
	Ever praying for the success of the EXPO-
NENT, I remain your sincere friend,
