DESERET HOSPITAL.
The dedication services of the Deseret Hospi-
tal were held at the building on Fifth East
Street, in this city, Monday, July 17th, at
11 o’clock a.m. Of the First Presidency of
the Church John Taylor and Joseph F. Smith,
were present, also President Wilford Woodruff
and Apostle F. D. Richards. Presidency of
Salt Lake Stake, Angus M. Cannon and Joseph
E. Taylor, Mayor of the city, Wm. Jennings,
Elders C. W. Penrose, L. John Nuttall, and
Joseph Horne. The President and officers of
the institution, also physicians in charge, mat-
ron and others. Dr. Seymour B. Young read
the programme of the services. Professor C. J.
Thomas had charge of the music. Prayer by
President Woodruff, and after singing and prayer
Dr. Young read the circular and appeal.
	President John Taylor said his sympathies
were extended to the ladies in their labors of
love for the establishment of this hospital,
where the sick of the Lord’s people could be at-
tended and have the benefit of the ordinances
of the Church as well as skilful treatment.
Accidents were numerous in these troublous
times and sickness prevalent. It was right that
we should have a place where the sick could be
efficiently tended. Several of the ladies pres-
ent had acquired a knowledge of those princi-
ples which were needful in proper attention to
the sick, which he was pleased to recognize, for
it was in accord with our religion to acquire all
useful information to deal with disease, and
physicians should not be bound by rigid rules,
but act as directed by the Lord, because there
were so many phases of the same diseases and
so much difference in the constitutions of man-
kind. At the same time we were commanded
of the Lord to “seek out of the best books words
of wisdom,” and to seek knowledge by learning.
Yet we must not forget to call in the aid of
faith, but while we acquire all the intelligence
possible to be attained, at the same time we must
exercise faith that the blessings of the Lord
might be upon our efforts. The officers of the
Association and all connected with it, had his
best wishes, and he felt that they would have
the blessing and favor of God. They should not
neglect to avail themselves of all possible sour-
ces of knowledge, but seek for it in every direc-
tion. He closed by blessing the officers, physi-
cians and attendants, and all connected with
the hospital.
	President Joseph F. Smith endorsed the re-
marks of President Taylor. This was a step
quite necessary to be taken. It was in the in-
-terest of the afflicted and the poor. He would
have been pleased if the institution could have
been started in a better place. It was but a
small beginning,  yet it was better than none at
all, and he expressed the hope that success
would attend it, and that perfect union, har-
mony and good feeling would prevail among all
who had the conduct of its affairs, so that the
good spirit of the Lord might be with them,
and that while they exercised all the skill that
was possible, they might be so sensitive to the
whisperings of the spirit of the Lord that they
would be able to obtain the power of God for the
benefit of the sick, and that they might be
guided in the channel of the best success. He
believed that the Latter-day Saints, had the
right to obtain the blessing and direction of the
Lord In all their affairs, and especially in such
labors as those for the benefit of the afflicted;
He invoked the blessing of the Lord upon the
efforts of the institution, its officers and all who
should receive the benefits thereof.
	Apostle F. D. Richards offered the dedicatory
prayer,
	President W. Woodruff coincided with what
had been said, and congratulated the sisters
upon the progress of another labor of love con-
nected with the Relief Society. That society,
like other features of the Church and Kingdom
of God, was organized to stay. He endorsed
with all his heart the principles enunciated of
looking to the Lord. We needed salvation.
Men’s ideas of medicine changed materially.
The course of practice pursued when he was a
boy would not be followed now. He related inci-
dents in illustrations of this, and showed the
necessity of the guidance of the Almighty in
the treatment of the sick. he was thankful
that we would now have a place for the treat-
ment of the afflicted, where the Elders could
walk in and freely administer the ordinance for
the healing of the sick, and he felt that this
institution would grow and increase and ac-
complish the purpose desired.
	President Angus M. Cannon was gratified
that the Sisters had been led to take the course
which had resulted in the establishment of this
hospital. They had been very faithful in their
efforts in that Relief Society which was estab-
lished by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Here was
a place where the afflicted of the Lord’s people
could be watched over in a proper way and
could be administered to by the good Samari-
tans. God had set His hand to establish Zion
in its beauty and power, and he felt that this
beginning would be looked back to as the germ
of something much greater, which would re-
flect credit upon all engaged in it. He trusted
that some extensive grounds would soon be ob-
tained. He related an incident in his experi-
ence, showing the necessity and blesssing of
reliance upon the Lord for healing of the sick.
he hoped the Institution would be sustained by
the faith and means of the people. 
	Mayor Wm. Jennings considered that this
hospital was needed in this Territory. The
Elders had done a good work. We had become
a large community, and people of all classes
were among us, also many who were afflicted
from various causes. In some of the isolated
places of the Territory there was lack of medi-
cal skill, and here was a place to which cases
might be brought for treatment which they
could not obtain where they lived. Here the
sick could be treated in a way that they could
not be among persons not of our faith. He
hoped the ladies would keep in view, as he be-
lieved they would, the fact that this hospital
was not for speculation but for relief. He hoped
this building would prove large enough for many
years to come. It would have his support, both
by his means and faith.
	Elder C. W. Penrose said there was no need
for any remarks from him concerning the objects
of this institution nor the benefits to follow from
it; these had been well set forth by those
speakers who had preceded him. He would say,
however, that the institution had his sympathy
and support, and he believed it would be suc-
cussful. Some persons might wonder why Lat-
ter-day Saints who believed in healing by faith,
needed a hospital. He showed that faith and
science were not incompatible. That, according
to the revelations of God, knowledge was to be
obtained by study and also by faith; so with the
treatment of the sick; the means ordained of
God as remedies should be used and at the same
time faith be exercised. They who had suffi-
cient faith could be healed by faith. They who
had not faith were to be nourished and treated
with proper remedies, and these, it was written,
should be used with “prudence and thanksgiv-
ing,” with judgment and skill, but "not by the
hand of an enemy.” Therefore skill should be
acquired by study. Women had always been
recognized as good nurses, but only of recent
date as skilled physicians and surgeons. He was
glad at the progress of public opinion. He con-
gratulated the ladies on the good work they had
accomplished.
 The next in order was the setting apart of the
physicians and matron by President John Tay-
lor, and Joseph F. Smith and others. Dr. Ellen
B. Ferguson was blest and set apart by Prest.
Taylor, Dr. Romania B. Pratt, President Smith
officiating. Mary E. Greene Van Schoonhoven
Dispensary clerk by President Woodruff. Mary
Ann McLean, Matron, by Apostle F. D.
Richards. Benediction was pronounced by
Counselor Joseph E. Taylor.
	Mayor Jennings manifested his interest in
this benevolent institution by handing over to
the President a check for five hundred dollars.
There is every prospect of success in this humane
and much  needed enterprise if the brethren and
sisters respond to the appeal. It requires a great
exertion on the part of those engaged in this
work to establish an institution of this kind by
donation. There is everything needed, and any
donation of furniture, bedding, household uten-
sils, crockery, cutlery, etc., will be gratefully
received. It is hoped that the sisters in the dif.
ferent Stakes of Zion will feel it a pleasure and a
duty to become members of the Hospital Associa-
tion, and have their names enrolled with those
more actively engaged in this good and noble
work for the suffering and distressed.


