WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WORK.
	Last Monday morning, while I was making
my toilet, I was thinking over a very beautiful
ceremony which I had witnessed the day be-
fore.  It was all fresh in my memory then, and
I wanted so much to sit down and write it all
out. But the duties of the day were before me,
the domestic duties of a wife and mother on
Monday and I had to content myself with look-
ing wistfully towards my pen, and then turn
my thoughts upon other topics.
	It occurred to my mind, that if the thousands
of wives and mothers who have rare and beauti-
ful thoughts which they would love to embody
and put on paper, but to whom the opportuni-
ties of so doing never come, should once do,
what I then thought of doing--all shut them-
selves up away from the household, away from
their outer cares and preplexitites, and commence
writing--what a shock business generally would
sustain.  I laid this thought aside also, and
went quietly about my work; remembering
that I was no longer a girl at home, with a
loving, indulgent mother and generous older sis-
ters to look after and do the work if I neglect it.
	However willing and efficient the person or
persons may be who are paid for their services
about the house, the care and responsibilities of
domestic concerns being kept in order, must rest
upon the wife and mother, if she will be faith-
ful to her calling in all things. And sometimes
they will rest heavily and feel burdensome, no
matter how hard she may try to believe that
labors of love are always sweet and light.
	But let no young woman imagine the state of
continued maidenhood preferable to taking upon
herself the important mission of a true help-
mate to man, which the great Father designed
her to fill.  Be it far from me to encourage any
such fallacy.


What if wives must work? So must every
one else; except some who shirk their real por-
tions in life, and who will be pretty sure to fall
short of their expectations in the day of rewards.
We must eat. We must be clothed. Washing
and ironing must be done for us all; and we
must work and should enjoy it, generally. And
when we have duties to perform which do not
exactly accord with our frame of mind at the
time, we must perform them with as good grace
as possible, and try to be satisfied.
	We who are constantly striving to prepare for
the great future as well as to provide for the
present, who strive to live not only for our own
good, but for the good of our fellowbeings, and
the glory of our Creator, have double or triple
work to do. And in all, we must not forget nor
neglect the practical part.
	At this season of the year, we must remem-
ber and be on hand for our wheat gathering and
storing away for future need. In this work, the
older members of our Primary Associations, if
properly encouraged and instructed, might ren-
der great assistance. They could raise beans
too, with much profit.				LULA.


