"A FEW MORE FACTS."
			-------
	All intelligent people will agree with Scrip-
ture that it is but fair to judge a tree by its
fruits.  Now I claim that polygamy brings
forth fruit of the very choicest kind.  I was
born and reared in this order, and am peculi-
arly proud of my parentage; would not ex-
change with the daughters of Queen Victoria.
Most writers on this subject claim that poly-
gamy must in time yield to higher civilization.
How very absurd to be sure.  Did not our pa-
rents come from the very heart of civilization.
but a very few years ago?  And are they not
among the noblest and most intelligent of the
world?  And did not this order of marriage
shock and astonish them quite as much as the
Christian world now profess to be shocked?
Certainly, and it came in contact with their
tradition, education, and every selfish feeling of
their natures.  And more, they were compelled
to endure the scorn of the world, and of their
nearest and dearest friends.  But did they insti-
tute it?  Did they seek it?  Did they desire it?
No, of course not.  Common sense will answer
that question.  God, our Creator, positively
commanded it; and what could they do?  The
trial was so great that many would have pre-
ferred death, and would no doubt never have
received it had not God in His mercy shown it
to them individually by His power, for He
knew the honesty of their hearts in doubting, 
and had respect unto their integrity.  A great
many felt like this:  We know it was practiced
by the ancient saints; but, oh! do not require
this sacrifice of us.  But God strengthened
them, and made them understand His glorious
purpose in establishing it; how He could by
this holy order people the world with a right-
eous seed and purify and improve the present
state of mankind; and how, through this chan-
nel, those waiting in the spirit land might be
brought forth, and population need not de-
crease as the world would have it, but increase
on a grand scale through virtuous and God-
fearing parents; for none but the highly-intel-
ligent and noble-minded can make a success of
plural marriage.  It requires firmness, piety,
faith, hope and charity to a very great degree;
and when they talk about degrading, I wonder
and smile at their ignorance, and totally fail to
see one degrading feature in it.  Why, it is the
very essence of purity. 
	Now I will let you take a peep into my
neighbor's affairs, that is, the polygamic ones.
Here is Mrs. W. on my right; she is the second
wife, has a lovely and comofortable home, and
a large fine family of ten, ranging from two to
twenty-three in age; also one belonging to ano-
ther wife (deceased), which she has reared as
her own.  They are truly a happy family, and
a very good lot of boys and girls. The first
wife comes frequently to visit them, and I have
often witnessed their meeting, unobserved; 'tis
a hearty kiss and clasp of the hand, and all
the children flock around for the affectionate
greeting they are sure to get from "Auntie."
She has told me she always sent for her when
sickness came among them, "for she is such a
good nurse, you know, and so kind."  I called
Sunday afternoon, and was delightfully enter-
tained with sweet music and singing by the
older girls.  All except the two youngest at-
tend school, and are in every way loved and
cherished by a kind father, and almost the
same as two good mothers.  The first wife has
also a very nice family.
	Here is Mrs. S. on my left; she is plural
wife; has a family of twelve, four of them be-
long to a former wife who died.  She is such a 
pleasant, good woman, and does not appear
very miserable, I am sure; on the contrary, I 
don't know of a happier woman.  She has a
most lovely home, her lawn and gardens would
command the admiration of any one.  Her
family are taught strict economy and industry,
as is the case with most of us, else how could
we subsist in the barren country, especially
where there are so many in family.  These are
the kind of boys and girls who will bless any
community and adorn society anywhere.
	Now, I am one of a family of thirty chil-
dren; was reared with my brothers and sisters
under the kind care of a most affectionate
father and loving and intelligent mothers.  We
were taught it was wrong to utter one impure
word.  We were called around in a family
circle to sacred prayer every morning and
evening.  We love each other as dearly as own
brothers and sisters.  My brothers, ten in
number, are large, fine-looking, noble men, an
honor to their father and a pride to their
mothers, and strictly temperate, not one excep-
tion.  The girls are also average and make
excellent mothers, and one and all to-day advo-
cate plural marriage after all this "dreadful
experience."  Strange, isn't it?  Well, this is
some of the fruits of polygamy, and I might
cite to many more facts of the same kind, but
will conclude by stating my unflinching belief
that this, the kingdom of God, will soon tri-
umph over every other, and "woe, woe to all
who will not humble themselves" and receive
and obey the simple but glorious plan of salva-
tion and eternal life, ere it is too late.
