MARY ISABELLA HORNE.

Continued.

	As soon as possible after arriving in a new
and desolate country, such as this was when
we first came here, Mr. and Mrs. Horne, who
have ever been energetic and industrious,
made themselves a nice little home in the 14th
ward of this city, and from that time until the
present have retained the homestead, adding
to the house and improving it, and the grounds,
as circumstances permitted. There their chil-
dren have grown up to manhood and to
womanhood, and others have been born to
them under the same roof. From that home,
sacred to love and duty, sons and daughters
have married and gone out to homes of their
own, and to fill honorable places and positions
in the Church; full of faith and integrity to
the Gospel whose principles they have been
taught in early life, and in the spirit of which
they have been nurtured and reared. Henry,
Joseph and Richard have been called upon
missions to preach the Gospel, and have faith-
fully performed the work. The girls are char-
acteristic for self-reliance, energy of character,
industry and perseverance; Mrs. Horne's chil-
dren have all received a good common educa-
tion and some have excelled in mental attain-
ments. Mrs. Horne is proverbially a true
mother; she has not only taught her children
admirable traits of character, but she has ex-
cellent family government and discipline, and
her children have formed regular habits that
will be of more value than gold or silver with-
out them. Mrs. Horne has not been without
trials in her married life, although she has
perhaps had none of those great changes that
cut deeper into a woman's life than a two-
edged sword. Whatever ordeals she has
passed through have been such as the Gospel
brought, or those which all share in sickness
and death. Plural marriage was to her a
principle of the Gospel given for the elevation
and exaltation of the human family. Her
belief in divine revelation, her great reverence
for every principle taught by the Prophet Jo-
seph, has helped her to receive truth, however
much it came in contact with her own personal
feelings and traditions. In speaking of her
first knowledge of the order of celestial mar-
riage, she says she has had strong testimony
for herself that it is of the Lord. The follow-
ing is from her pen:
	"I felt that it was my husband's duty to
obey this principle, yet I knew it would prove
a great trial to me. I prayed to the Lord con-
tinually that He would give me strength to
bear all things which it was his pleasure to
bring upon me. One night, while my husband
was away on an exploring expedition to the
southern part of Utah, in the winter of 1851,
while I was on my knees praying to the Lord,
a heavenly messenger suddenly appeared at my
bedside. He was clothed in a beautiful white
robe, with a girdle around his waist. I can
never forget the heavenly influence I felt
around me while he spoke to me on the subject
of celestial marriage. He told me that I had
to pass through severe trials and afflictions, but,
said this holy being, 'bear it all patiently; for
it will exalt you, and you will shine brightly
in the kingdom of God.' He then left me. I

[Column 2]

felt perfectly happy and contented the next
day; the house was so full of the holy influ-
ence that this messenger left behind him."
	From this time Mrs. Horne became more
than willing to enter into this holy order of
marriage by giving her husband other wives.
In due time this relation was entered into by
mutual consent of all parties concerned. Mrs.
Horne has borne herself nobly in all the dif-
ferent phases of plural domestic relations and
conditions, and to-day will testify that the ex-
perience gained in this higher school of life,
the necessity of self-sacrifice, is most refining
and elevating in its nature. There are no
nobler women on the face of the earth than
those who live in this order of marriage,
which is condemned by the outside world.
	On the 13th of August another daughter
was born to Mrs. Horne, which she named
Julia Maria. At this time there were more
comforts to be obtained for the sick, and the
circumstances of the Saints were greatly im-
proved, but there is one trial after another for
those who are working out their salvation, and
when Mrs. Horne's babe was only two weeks
old her husband was called on a mission to the
Missouri River to assist in the emigrating of a
company of Latter-day Saints. The wife and
mother, with a little family of six children,
was left entirely alone. Yet notwithstanding
her household cares and a young babe, Mrs.
Horne spent considerable time among the sick
and poor in her own neighborhood. She has
always devoted much time and ability to the
interests of others, giving counsel, attending
upon the sick, comforting the mourner, and in
all those offices of friendship and sisterly love
that are so beautiful in woman. Mr. Horne
returned with the company after a few months'
absence, finding his affairs in as good condition
as though a man had superintended every de-
tail of his business.
	Mrs. Horne had another, a second, pair of
twins born on the 9th of November, 1853; she
named them John Parley and Mary Isabella.
The little girl died with whooping cough at the
age of four months. On the 9th of Decem-
ber, 1855, the third pair of twins were born,
both girls. They were called Pamela Eliza
and Cornelia Harriet. The last two made four
little ones born within two years and one
month. The mother lay hovering between
life and death for several hours after the birth
of these twin daughters, and although she ral-
lied and slowly recovered, it was a long time
before she was able to attend to her household
duties.
	After she had partially recovered, during
the time of her convalescence, her thoughts
were much of heavenly things, and her mind
drawn out in gratitude to God for the preser-
vation of her life, as she was desirous of rear-
ing her family in the fear of the Lord. While
pondering upon the goodness of God upon one
occasion, she was impressed to write her feel-
ings, and gave vent in a sweet and tender little
poem upon the birth of her twins, which might
be appropriately entitled, "A Mother's Wel-
come." Mrs. Horne is inclined to the poetical,
especially in a spiritual sense. She has the
gift of tongues, and often under the inspiration
of the Holy Spirit breaks forth in singing, in
lofty strains of praise and even prophecy;
which, when interpreted, breathe the true spirit
of poesy. Her themes in song are always ex-
alted ones, and partake of the sublime.
	To be Continued.


