[Vol3 | January 1916 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Home | Title: Home Economics - The Latter-day Saint Home]

LESSON IV. Home Economics.
THE LATTER-DAY SAINT HOME.
Fourth Week, February.
The "Mormon" Conception of the Home.
Unlike other peoples, the Latter-day Saints believe that the home upon earth is patterned after the home in heaven. Paul says that things earthly are a type of things heavenly. In the righteous home, the husband and father presides by reason of his superior wisdom and virtue. The wife and mother stands shoulder to shoulder with him, while the children repeat their virtues and their teachings.
Ideals of the Christian Family.
Mortal life is one of the grandest privileges granted by our Father. To have the opportunity of gradual development, of growth, of achievement, this is one of the supreme gifts of God to his children. Mortal life is a preparatory school for the spirit. The body may be compared to the four walls in which we learn our lessons. These walls confine our spirits, limit our powers, and check the full expression of our wills ? happily so. For without these confining walls, we would be powerless to react, unable to learn the full lesson of faith, unselfish love and strict obedience to law.
The Family Circle.
Race suicide, and its twin sister ? prevention of child-bearing, through so-called harmless methods, has no place in the heavenly plan for our human homes. Men and women who know not God can be excused, perhaps, for maintaining childless homes. But true Christians, and Latter-day Saints are the truest of all Christians, cannot acquiesce in any doctrine or practice which sanctions marriage and allows restriction of offspring. God only is the arbiter of life and death. If a man take his own life he cuts himself off from the presence of God. Why not also declare that the woman who prevents birth cuts herself off from all hope of eternal exaltation? The greatest modern sin is the limiting of offspring for selfish purposes. This sin is denounced in the book of Jasher, an ex-canonical book, as one of the prime causes of the deluge.
Love and Service.
The foundation of all joy and all happiness, is to love and to serve. If we love truly, we will want to serve. The joy of service is the keenest delight the heart ever knows. To acquire money, knowledge or fame, gives a certain crude pleasure but to be of service, to administer to others, to achieve, this is the supreme happiness, it is God-like.
Obedience to the Laws of Health.
God thought so much of health that he inspired Moses to write a whole code of laws governing the minutest point of daily action for the children of Israel. He taught them the strictest cleanliness, bade them burn infected clothing, whitewash houses, cleanse all vessels, and made personal cleanliness a part of their ceremonial rituals. Modern teachers and physicians have but emphasized, and clothed in simple terms, the restrictions of Moses. The Word of Wisdom, and the 123-126 verses of the 88th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, restate these laws.
Physical Virtues.
Virtue is generally its own reward. As a rule, those who keep the laws of health will be strong and well. There is one point, however, to consider: there may be many laws of which we are ignorant as well as the few we know. We may be breaking some unknown physical law even if we are keeping all the known laws. So that, after all, we are dependent on our Father's mercy, not only for life and breath, but also for what measure of health we may enjoy from time to time. However, we should keep the laws we know, that we may not suffer the consequences of willful disobedience. God may and does overrule our ignorant disobedience, but he is not so merciful to deliberate disobedience.
Longevity.
Most men crave long life. Simple food, with a good variety, plenty of sleep, obedience to the laws of the gospel, the day well measured as to work and play, a mind free from corroding worry ? these may insure long years of useful life. A prolonged age is not an unmixed blessing. If elderly people are happily engaged in the rejuvenating labors of the temple, or in useful service to mankind, the years may flow on to the century mark. But idle and complaining old age has but one apparent blessing, the discipline of spirit for younger members of the family.
Improvements of Home Life.
The wise mother will endeavor to adjust herself to the lightning changes of modern times. But as old habits are broken up and new ideals emerge from the day's problems, she will scan closely the relations of the changing customs to the rock of revelation and to the revealed forms of religion. Above all things the mother of tomorrow must be adaptable, able to seize the best of today, while losing none of the priceless things of yesterday. Truth is ever the same; but there are so many ways of seeing and presenting truth that the wise mother and grandmother will search constantly for the new word, the modern phrase, the up-to-date illustration with which to clothe her eternal truth, her everlasting principles of virtue and holiness.
Truth, loyalty and integrity, these are the pillars of the home, the foundations of society, here and hereafter. We need stricter obedience to the laws of cleanliness, to the Word of Wisdom, and to the laws of Moses as taught in modern hygiene, and the Doctrine and Covenants. We need constant watchfulness on the part of parents, for the protection of childhood from the moral contamination of modern conditions. We need constant emphasis placed on the importance of the spiritual laws of our own religion. That which parents love to do, children usually enjoy doing also. We need more loyal affection and reverence shown by mothers to fathers, by children to parents, and by fathers to the presiding priesthood. We should cultivate a strict adherence to the teachings of our pioneer fathers and mothers, while remembering to honor their lives and memories.
QUESTIONS.
What are the teachings of the Church concerning the home? What do you consider one of the greatest gifts of God to his children? What have you taught your daughters about bearing their children? Are women ever justified in refusing to have children? Who are the healthiest women in your community, and how many children have they brought into the world? What brings the greatest joy to the human soul? What is the meaning of love? When do we serve best? What book in the Bible contains the laws of health as taught by Moses? What are the foundation principles of the home?