[Vol11 | July 1924 | Sequence: 12b | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for September]

Guide Lessons for September

LESSON I

Theology and Testimony
(First Week in September)

THE PARABLES OF OUR SAVIOR (Continued)

Next to the kingdom of heaven itself, it would seem that forgiveness was a matter of concern with the Lord Jesus. And this is certainly consistent with his mission. He is the great Source of the remission of sins, but for his sacrifice the dead sin which brought death into the world would hold men in their graves forever.

We cannot say that Jesus was a great repenter because he did not sin; but we can say that he was the greatest forgiver that is known to history. He taught forgiveness, he practiced forgiveness; and among his last utterances he called upon his Father to forgive all men. Little wonder then that we are divinely manded to forgive all men, and told that our being forgiven depends upon our forgiveness of others.

No one can consistently adopt the Lord's prayer who is in an unforgiving state of mind.

Forgiveness is one of the conditions of heaven, perhaps one of the most important conditions.

There may be selfishness in repentance but perfect forgiveness is entirely altruistic. It is the great test which determines our capability to do as we would be done by. It seems plain that without forgiving hearts no place could be heaven and no condition can be heavenly.

Then it follows that to be unforgiving means to be unfit for heaven. Jesus preached forgiveness in sermons, and taught it in parable, and practiced it marvelously.

The Parable of the Unmerciful Servant—Matt. 18:23-35.

"Therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened unto the king, which did take account of his servants.

"And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought unto him, which owed him ten thousand talents:

"But forasmuch as he had naught to pay, his lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife, and children, and all that he had, and payment to be made.

"The servant therefore fell down, and worshipped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all.

"Then the lord of that servant was moved with compassion, and loosed him, and forgave him the debt.

"But the same servant went out, and found one of his fellow servants which owed him an hundred pence; and he laid hands on him, and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest.

"And his fellow servant fell down at his feet, and besought him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all.

"And he would not; but went and cast him into prison, till he should pay the debt.

"So when his fellowservants saw what was done, they were very sorry, and came and told unto their lord all that was done.

"Then his lord, after that he had called him, said unto him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt, because thou desirest me:

"Shouldest not thou also have had compassion on thy fellow servant, even as I had pity on thee?

"And his lord was wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors till he should pay all that was due unto him.

"So likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts forgive not every one his brother their trespasses."

This parable was evidently directed to the business custom of enslaving for debt. The kingdom of heaven is compared to a king, just and merciful, one to whom an account must be rendered and adjustments made in keeping with the willingness and ability of the debtor to pay. Then as now business men were in positions of power and needed for their own sakes to be shown that there is no perfect justice without mercy. This parable brought them face to face with forgiveness in a business transaction in which three things were illustrated: First, that heaven would demand a reckoning for opportunities and abilities entrusted to every individual; second, that forgiveness was a practice of heaven; and third, that unforgiveness in man resulted in a necessary unforgiveness of heaven even for sins that had previously been forgiven.

The lesson is illustrative of a temporary admittance into heaven through forgiveness and then a sudden banishment from heaven through the manifestation of an unheavenly state on man's part and the authority and power that keep heaven heavenly.

The Parable of the Two Debtors—Luke 7:41-43.

"There was a certain creditor which had two debtors: the one owed five hundred pence, and the other fifty:

"And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me, therefore, which of them will love him most?

"Simon answered and said, I suppose that he to whom he forgave most. And he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged."

This parable was given to show the relation between forgiveness and love: that where there is much of one, there is an abundance of the other. Forgiveness not only begets love in the heart of the one who is forgiven but it develops love in the heart of the one who forgives.

The parable was also a polite rebuke to the unforgiveness of the Pharisee at whose house Jesus was a guest.

By reference to verse thirty-nine it will be seen that on that occasion Jesus read the mind of his hypocritical host and answered his unexpressed opinion of Jesus as to whether he was a prophet or an impostor.

For an understanding of the setting and the circumstance of this parable a study of Luke 7:37-50 should be made. It should be clearly kept in mind that in the light of the life of Jesus, it cannot be thought that sinning to be forgiven that we may love or be loved is taught by this parable. The woman had not transgressed to be forgiven but through weakness, and she repented she came to Jesus for an authoritative release from the thraldom of her iniquity, and having been forgiven, her gratitude brought her to Jesus with gifts expressive of her appreciation of his power and generosity of spirit.

The Parable of the Prodigal Son—Luke 15:11-32

"And he said, A certain man had two sons:

"And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living.

"And not many days after, the younger son gathered all together and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living.

"And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land; and he began to be in want.

"And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine.

"And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat: and no man gave unto him.

"And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger!

"I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee,

"And am no more worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants.

"And he arose and came to his father. But when he was yet