[Vol11 | July 1924 | Sequence: 11c | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for September]

GUIDE LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER
"And is there nothing yet unsaid, Before the change appears? Remember, all their gifts have fled With those dissolving years"
"Why, yes;' for memory would recall My fond paternal joys; 'I could not bear to leave them all? I'll take?my?girl?and?boys.'
"The smiling angel dropped his pen? 'Why, this will never do; The man would be a boy again, And be a father too!'
"And so I laughed,?my laughter woke The household with its noise,? And wrote my dream, when morning broke, To please the gray-haired boys."
THE BOYS
Has there any old fellow got mixed with the boys? If there has, take him out, without making a noise. Hang the Almanac's cheat and the Catalogue's spite! Old Time is a liar! We're twenty tonight!
We're Twenty! We're Twenty! Who says we are more? He's tipsy,?young jackanapes!?show him the door! "Gray temples at twenty?"?Yes! White if you please; Where the snow-flakes fall thickest there's nothing can freeze!
Was it snowing I spoke of? Excuse the mistake! Look close,?you will see not a sign of a flake! We want some new garlands for those we have shed,? And these are white roses in place of the red.
We've a trick, we young fellows, you may have been told, Of talking (in public) as if we were old:? That boy we call "Doctor," and this we call "Judge;" It's a neat little fiction,?of course it's all fudge.
That fellow's the "Speaker,"?the one on the right; "Mr. Mayor," my young one, how are you tonight? That's our "Member of Congress," we say when we chaff; There's the "Reverend"? What's his name??don't make me laugh.
That boy with the grave mathematical look Made believe he had written a wonderful book, And the ROYAL SOCIETY thought it was true! So they chose him right in; a good joke it was, too!
There's a boy, we pretend, with a three-decker brain, That could harness a team with a logical chain; When he spoke for our manhood in syllabled fire, We called him "The Justice," but now he's "The Squire."
And there's a nice youngster of excellent pith,? Fate tried to conceal him by naming him Smith; But he shouted a song for the brave and the free,? Just read on his medal, "My country," "of thee!"

gone the demoralizing strain of a long period of failure and misfortune. This process of losing health and hope and friends is usually a gradual and insidious one, brought about by a sequence of disheartening events. Therefore, the building-up process, the renewing of the physical and mental powers cannot be accomplished in a moment. Because of the growth of the desired positive values is slow, and often meets with apparent failure for a time, superficial treatment cannot be effective. Intensive and tireless and prolonged effort is needed to effect the desired changes in individuals and the forces that influence their development.
It is impossible, of course, to outline a general plan of treatment for certain types of social ailments. The plan to rehabilitate delinquents, for instance, cannot be the same for each one. What course is advisable to follow must be determined by the individual personality, his physical and mental and emotional make-up, his background, his capabilities, and the resources that the home and the community have to offer. Just such information and understanding is needed also to guide the future of any person who is in difficulty?whether he is one who has failed economically or one who evades the responsibility of caring for his family. Because treatment cannot be administered by a prescribed formula, the task of aiding people who are not succeeding is extremely difficult. It is possible, only, to indicate certain ends that may be attained, and a general method that may be used in accomplishing these ends.
It is essential in planning a course of social treatment to determine, quite definitely, what achievement is possible in a particular situation. Serious thought must be given to both the handicaps, or liabilities, that have stood in the way of normal adjustment, and also to the potentialities, or assets, that indicate possibilities for growth and development. The handicaps should be removed, if possible, and if not, they should be understood as permanent disadvantages to the individual. At the same time the potentialities of the situation should be developed. The individual should be restored to health if he is ill, should be trained for suitable employment if he has met with industrial disability, should be made to assume responsibilities if he has been evading them, should be relieved of worry and strain if the burden he has been carrying has been too heavy, should be connected with friends and relatives and church if he has become estranged from them during his period of distress. The process of treatment is the elimination of undesirable elements in the situation and the fostering and strengthening of the powers and traits and connections that are desirable.
Perhaps the treatment administered in the following simple illustration will show the processes involved. A woman who had
been ill for some time, was sure that she would not recover, so wanted to place her eight-year-old boy in a good home, so that she would have no further worry about his future. After some study and interpretation and treatment, the child was kept with the mother, but only after certain handicaps had been removed and certain possibilities for adjustment had been created. The handicaps to be removed were the mother's ill health; her discouragement, and her strong conviction that her plan was her only recourse. The assets in the situation on which the treatment was based, were the assurance, given by the physician, after an examination, that the mother's health could be restored, her willingness to be guided by what would be best for the child, and her strong desire to have him with her. So her consent was finally gained to have the boy placed temporarily, instead of permanently, and with renewed hope she submitted herself to medical treatment which resulted in a gradual recovery of health and courage, and later in her economic independence.
Questions and Problems
1. Explain in some detail the three processes used in solving a social problem.
2. Why is treatment the final test? Why is it often discouraging?
3. Why is the treatment of a juvenile offender likely to be more successful than the treatment of an older offender?
4. Why is an understanding of the mental and physical and emotional make-up of a person necessary, when treatment is being planned for him?
5. Show how the plan in the incident might have failed, if the person interested in the mother had not been skillful in changing mental attitudes.