[Vol11 | August 1924 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: The Stricken Family at the White House]

The Stricken Family at the White House As we dictate this note of sympathy, the funeral service for Calvin Coolidge, Jr., is being held at the White House. ) A year ago now we were writing a note of sympathy to Mrs. Harding, and in the early spring our hearts were drawn out to Mrs. Wilson.

It seems that the "Grim Reaper" has paid all too frequent visits to the haunts of the mighty within the last year.

We do not recall, during any period of our lives the frequency of death to occupants of the White House that this last year has brought.

Every mother's heart in the land throbs in sympathy with Mrs. Coolidge, and every father's heart beats a dirge of sorrow for the President.

May the richest blessings of our Father rest upon the family of our Chief Executive to comfort and heal the wounds made by so untimely a death of so promising a youth.

Editor's Note: The poem by Claire Stewart Boyer; the sketch om the life of Oliva Pratt Driggs, and the story "John Bennett's Divorce" were designed for the July issue, but because of insufficient room were crowded out.

John Bennett's Divorce By Ivy Williams Stone At twenty-eight, Mrs. Ruth Bennett was the head of the millinery section in a Broadway department store.

She was respected by salesmen, loved by her clerks, valued by her employers.

But her only claim to matrimony seemed to be in her wedding ring, for her husband never materialized.

While Ruth Bennett catered to temperamental fashion, John Bennett toiled on a remote ranch somewhere "out west." "You've got a visitor, Mrs, Bennett," announced a deal one bright April morning, as Ruth sorted the department mail.

"She looks like she's sneaked off Ellis Island, but she says she has come all the way from Buenna, Idaho.

You ought to see her coat?

"Did you say Buenna, Idaho?" interrupted Mrs. Bennett, in a tone neither crisp nor business-like, but betraying sudden agitation. '"Buenna," she repeated, adding under her breath,. "that's John's postoffice." She turned to her desk to hide rising emotion.

"T'll see her in fifteen minutes,' she added.

Ruth Bennett did not devote the interval of time to her mail or her important orders.

While she automatically fingered the tempting renewal of contract which the firm offered her, she made a rapid mental survey of the preceding six years of her life.

She recalled the circumstances which today found her husband alone on a ranch in Idaho, while she held a position of responsibility in New York City.

She recalled their marriage; John's enthusiasm over the ''call of the west;? their removal to the arid farm lands of Idaho, youthfully certain that a new Utopia lay before them.

She remembered how John had gloried in the great future he visualized, while her sensitive nature shrunk from the hardships and necessary privations of pioneering life.

While John had tramped joyously behind his plow or sung as he grubbed cedars, Ruth had loathed the silence, the hot winds, the insufferable canned food and stale water, which were a part of the arid valley.

While John had built sheds and fenced his homestead with cedars of his own cutting, his wife had resented the necessity of cedar chips, and the smoky, ill-smelling bacon which was their main fare.

She saw no future in the gray stretches of sagebrush.

No release from the monotonous toil and routine.

Her rosecolored dreams were shattered, and she begrudged every day spent in the small, dirt-roofed cabin.

After the first winter, John, realizing her unhappiness, had let her go back home for a change, telling her to return when she JOHN BENNETT'S DIVORCE ? 397 felt "rested." The rest had lengthened into a year, and Ruth waited for John to send for her.

As he did not do this she had gone to work, and now six years had passed since her glad farewell to the land of sagebrush and squirrels.

Six years in which.

She had attained a position of responsibility, had saved most of her earnings; had grown more lonely in the rushing crowds than she had ever been on the homestead, and had come to live upon the coming of John's letters.

But of late these had become infrequent and strained, betraying the lack of common interest.

"I wonder,? mused Mrs. Bennett to herself, fingering the contract, "if John still grubs cedars and hauls water.

I wonder if this visitor brings a message from him.

I've had no letter since Christmas, and it is almost Easter.

I? Her reverie was interrupted by the approach of her visitor, whose appearance beggared the clerk's description.

A faded green.

Coat of antique style nearly covered a dark blue, "hobble type" skirt.

Her old beaver hat was adorned with a rollicking owl; her hair was drawn into a tight, unlovely knot.

Her feet were shod in heel'ess comfort.

Only her hands and intelligent eyes, clear, gray, and searching, asserted her right to belong to the present generation.

"You're Miss Bennett, I could tell easy.

I've saw your picture so often," began the caller dispensing with all formality.

"John couldn't nuver claim you fur his sister, though, far as looks is concerned.

You don't favor him a mite.

Guess' you both took after different sides of the family." She was delving into a gray telescope as she spoke and knowing the custom of certain country people of using Miss and Mrs. Interchangeably, Ruth did not hasten to correct her guest's error. ' "O here 'tis!

I like to thought I'd lost it!" The young woman rose, flushed but triumphant, and extended an envelope addressed to Miss Ruth Bennett, courtesy Miss Madge Paine.

With the apparent guilelessness of a child, Miss Paine's gaze wandered about the tiny office, while Ruth, unheeding, read her letter.

Dear Ruth:?Since you have stayed away six years, I am about to divorce you on the grounds of desertion.

The bearer of this 'note, Miss Madge Paine, is a young lady of our valley who has shown me many a kindness during the years I have lived alone.

She has assumed of her own accord that you are my sister.

Please do not inform her otherwise.

I shall apply for divorce during her absence, and when I am free, I intend to marry her.

She has money, please superintend the purchase of her trousseau and send her back with a blessing for us both.

Sincerely, JoHN BENNETT.

Ruth read and reread her letter in rigid silence.

So, this was the reason for John's recent silence, for the dearth of letters during the past year.

And this was to be the end of her years of