[Vol11 | August 1924 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Religion in Russia]

Religion in Russia It would seem, from trustworthy information, that the Communist or Bolshevik element of the Russian Government is antagonistic to many of the most vital teachings of the Bible and the revealed Word concerning our Lord and Savior.: The following graphic bit of history related by Senator William H. King, at the funeral service of his sister-in-law?Mrs. Samuel A. King, is to the point.

In one of the cities of Russia the Soviet officials called a meeting to discuss religion, to which the Communist leaders and priests were invited.

One of the Bolshevik speakers explained?the Christ myth, attempting to show that the Savior was but a man and had not been resurrected?

And concluded his speech by declaring that?all superstitions concerning Christ should be put away?and shouting?long live the Communist Internationale.

J: Long live the Communist Internationale.

There was liberal applause.

A Jewish speaker attacked the stories concerning the birth of Christ, and in conclusion declared "that Mary was but a woman of the streets." There was less applause.

A priest then arose, standing silently before the people, and made the sign of the cross, It was Easter week, and the priest pronounced the Easter greeting: "Christ is risen." The multitude swayed toward him by way of reply, and said, "He is risen indeed." The priest repeated, Christ is risen," and with a mighty response the audience replied, "He is risen indeed!" "What more is there to say?

Let us to our homes," answered the priest after a moment of silence.

Thus ended the meeting, 
 Utah, a Mecca of Ediadtian At this writing three summer schools of the state are in full swing.

They are respectively; the Agricultural College summer school at Logan, the summer school of the University of Utah, at Salt Lake City, and the Brigham Young University summer school at Provo.

The largest of these is the Utah Agricultural College summer school, with an enrollment of 1500, including regular and special students.

The Agricultural College has brought to the state this season an extraordinary number of noted educators from both the East and the West.

The University of Utah has surpassed its enrollment of last year, and has a number of guest professors and special lecturers from leading institutions from other parts of the country.

One feature relating to the guest professors at the University of Utah, especially gratifying, is that it has called back two native Utahns Dr. John Sundwall, on the faculty of the University of Michigan, and Dr. Horace Secrist on the faculty of Northwestern University.

Both of these young men received part or all of their preparatory training for college here in the state, and both of them have been regular members of faculties of local institutions.

Dr. Sundwall was at one time on the staff of the University of Utah, and Dr. Secrist on the staff of the Brigham Young University. _ The Brigham Young University has surpassed its summer school enrollment of last year and has already more students than it can accommodate for the summer schools at Aspen Grove, the second term.

This summer it has a group of guest professors from well known Universities East and West, as well as Dr. Adam S. Bennion, Superintendent.

Of Church Schools, and Mrs. Maud eee Jacob, head of the English department of the Provo High chool.

We wish to draw particular attention to three things in this recital of facts.

First, that the Agricultural College, in its summer school, has brought a good many men of educational renown into our state who would not have come otherwise, thus introducing our state, with all its educational facilities and beauty, to educational leaders of the first rank.

Secondly, it has given opportunity for our Utah students to come face to face with these professional men.

This is just as true of the University of Utah summer school and the Brigham Young University summer school, as it is of the Agricultural College summer school, the point of vantage being with the Agricultural College, because it has brought into the state the greatest number of guest professors.

Our second point is in relation to bringing home our Utah boys so that we may all realize where they stand professionally, and what they are accomplishing in the educational world.

The last point we EDITORIAL ? 395 wish to emphasize, and perhaps this is the most important, is that although the Agricultural College has a student body of 1,500, it has not deminished the enrollment of the summer schools in the other two college centers.

It speaks volumes for the educational spirit that prevails in this intermountain region that three summer schools may be held in a region, comparatively speaking, sparsely inhabited, and yet be so eminently successful.

This matter should be of great interest to women, when we take into consideration the fact that a very large number of the students in these summer schools, in all probability the majority, are women.