LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in April) PHYSICAL PROBLEMS OF CHILDHOOD CLARA AND HARRIET The study of Clara is an especially interesting one because her physical defects present two serious and common problems of childhood?namely, speech defect and heart disease. The most striking features of this history, however, is the fact that the existence of the child's more serious ailment?the heart or cardiac disease?was unknown and unsuspected by the parents when Clara was taken to the clinic. The child was taken for examination for the less serious but more obvious speech defect. Had the physician merely outlined exercises to develop muscular control without making a complete physical examination, the serious heart condition may have continued without treatment for some time. A great emphasis is being placed by the medical profession on regular, thorough physical examinations. Every study in our text shows that the patient is not examined only for the suspected disease, nor are only the obvious symptoms noted. Each patient is given a complete study, including eyes, ears, throat, chest, abdominal, muscular, glandular and, frequently certain routine clinical tests. Such examinations, especially for children, are recognized as intelligent preventive medicine, for the successful treatment of many of the serious diseases depends on early discovery. These studies are sometimes termed "health examinations," showing that the purpose is to examine apparently healthy children with the purpose of keeping them well and forstalling the development of disease and defects. A standard set by some health experts is a yearly examination. A slogan which has been introduced and become generally familiar is, "Have a-health examination on your birthday," because the emphasis is being placed on preserving health, rather than treating diseases after they have developed; such health clinics are now considered an essential part of a community health program. Clara's opportune examination for an impairment of speech, revealed an unsuspected heart condition.. Perhaps if the parents had been more observing, they would have been alarmed earlier. The child's pulse had been rapid on two previous illnesses, on both occasions at the time Clara had tonsilitis. It is now quite generally recognized that there is a relation between heart trouble and tonsilitis, and that frequently there is complication of rheumatism. Our text states, too, that an uncontrolled muscular condition, chorea (St. Vitus Dance), is often associated with these three diseases. All tonsil infection does not necessarily end in heart trouble or rheumatism, but the appearance of one is sufficient symptom to have examination for the others. In Clara's case, perhaps, if the tonsils had been removed at her first attack her heart may have remained normal. The mention of chorea, undoubtedly suggests familiar childhood difficulties. The picture of the uncontrolled muscles, of the twitching face, and of the nervous and easily fatigued child is a common one. Rest, fresh air and perhaps medication, including the removal of infected teeth and tonsils may be only part of the treatment. Muscular control, sometimes, must be restored by corrective exercise and re-education. The treatment needed for Clara at this stage of the disease. Includes not only the removal of the tonsils, but a long period of rest. Whether this time should be spent at home or in a hospital depends on the nature of the home and the community's facilities for hospitalization. In some cities special wards or convalescent homes offer rest, special diet, and close supervision needed by cardiac patients. "A patient there can receive better care than is possible in a busy home, particularly if there are other children playing about, and the mother is | occupied with many other household tasks. Clara's schooling will, of course, be discontinued for a time and later will have to be modified to suit her capabilities. She, perhaps, will learn some trade that does not require great activity, as her handicap will be one she must adjust to throughout her life. Clara's minor ailment, the speech impairment, may improve with the betterment of her health. She, however, may need some special instructing and training in muscular control. The discussion in our text of speech defectives makes some surprising revelations. That three percent of all school children, or a total of 500,000 children, have some speech defect, indicates that it is a very common problem and one that is not receiving much attention either in the schools or by the medical profession. The causes of speech defect are many and therefore no general treatment can be outlined. Speech defect is common among the feeble-minded and the deaf, but they represent only a small part of the total. Persons with malformations of the mouth frequently have speech difficulties, and may need operative measures before correction can be made. But the majority of persons with speech defects have been found to respond to training, based on muscular and nervous control. It is obvious that a person with a speech defect is handicapped 
 His economic opportunities are naturally limited to occupations where speech is not essential (which would eliminate teaching, clerking, practice of law, salesmanship, etc.). Besides the vocational handicap, the individual suffers much embarrassment, and may become shy and retiring or embittered and belligerent?behavior that results from any keen feeling of inferiority. As our author states, the treatment of the speech defectives is an almost new project, but a very hopeful and important one. The other child, Harriet, presents a problem of malnutrition resulting from queer or freakish eating habits. Because a child is found to be malnourished, it does not always mean that the family cannot provide sufficient food. Good nutrition is dependent on much more than the family's financial ability to supply an adequate diet. Nutrition involves the individual's physical defects. His social life and home habits, his mental attitudes, and many other factors besides the ones of the amount and nature of the food. Harriet's difficulty was merely that she refused to eat. She had been permitted by her parents to develop faulty habits. If she was forced to take foods against her will, she induced (unconsciously, of course) an attack of nausea. It was, therefore, necessary to change her attitude of mind toward her health problem before any improvement could be expected. She had to be made to learn that greater satisfaction could be found in activity and possessing energy than in the pampering and attention she received by being frail and pampering her appetite. It is an infantile reaction to attempt to gain attention by inducing illness. The child is not conscious of its tactics, but it is purely a subconscious mechanism. If the child's wishes are frustrated, or if others are gaining attention he desires, it is quite likely that the "spoiled" child will have a headache and an attack of nausea. These attacks should not be encouraged by further pampering, but the child (as in the case of Harriet) should be made to feel the greater pleasures and satisfactions of healthy, normal activities. Our author gives several technical definitions of nutrition, and its opposite, malnutrition, including the standards of two authorities. Dr. Holt considers that a child may be considered malnourished if he is ten per cent underweight, according to standard charts. Dr. Haven P. Emerson regards seven per cent underweight as indicating malnourishment. Because nutrition is dependent on such a great number of factors, and because the whole matter of health is inter-related with nutrition, our author gives a broader meaning to the word nutrition, considering it to be the equivalent of good health. Reference: Challenge of Childhood, by Dr. Ira S. Wile; Clara, pages 32 to 41; Harriet, pages 46 to 52. Questions and Problems 1. Why are frequent health examinations of value, especiall for children?: 2. What treatment is prescribed for a child with nervous heart trouble? How can this best be provided? 3. What is the relation between tonsil infection and heart trouble? What other diseases are frequently related to these two? 4, Why is a speech defect a handicap, 5. What facilities has your community for treating speech defect? 6. What is malnutrition, What are some of its causes? 7. What was needed to change Harriet's bad eating habits? 8. How can parents prevent children from developing faulty diet