LANGUAGE OF THE HANDS.

	The London Saturday Review says that
M. Desbarrolles in his "Mysteries of the
Hand," a book in which he gives the rules
which form the basis of palmistry, divides
hands into three sorts. The first sort have
fingers with pointed tops; the second, square
tops; the third, spade-shaped tops. By
spade-shaped is meant fingers that are thick
at the end,  having a little pad of flesh at
each side of the nail. The first type of fin-
gers belong to characters possessed of rapid
insight to things; to extra-sensitive people;
to pious people whose piety is of the contem-
plative kind; to the impulsive, and to all
poets and artists in whom ideality is a prom-
inent trait. The second type belongs to
scientific people; to sensible, self-contained
characters; to most of our professional men,
who steer between the wholly practical
course that they of the spade-shaped fingers
take and the too visionary-bent of the peo-
ple with pointed fingers. The third type
pertains to those whose instincts are mate-
rial; to the people who have a genius for
commerce and a high appreciation of every-
thing that tends to bodily ease and comfort;
also to people of great activity. Each fin-
ger, no matter what kind of hand, has one
joint representing each of these. Thus, the
division of the finger which is types nearest
the palm stands for the body (and corres-
ponds with the spade-shaped type), the mid-
dle division represents  mind (the square
topped), the top, soul (the pointed). If the
top joint of the finger be long, it denotes a
character with much imagination, or ideality,
and a leaning towards the theoretical rather
than the practical. The middle part of the
finger being large promises a logical, calcu-
lating mind—a common-sense person. The
remaining joint long and thick denotes a na-
ture that clings more to the luxuries than to
the refinements of life. Things will present
themselves to such a nature under a lower
aspect, and utility will be accounted before
beauty.


