AN ADDRESS.
TO THE JUVENILE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE
		17TH WARD.	BY M. E. KIMBALL.
	It affords me great pleasure to meet with
the young people of this Society, for two
reasons. One is, their object and aim are
laudable and a great credit to them; the
other because their parents are among the
best people I ever knew. I believe I am ac-
quainted with the parents of all who are in
this room to-day; and when they know of
your seeking wisdom from the fountain of
intelligence, even our Heavenly Father,
you cause their hearts to rejoice. I know
you enjoy yourselves better in pursuing a
course to develop the abilities God has given
you, than in an opposite course. I believe
to improve our talents and our time as God
assigned. For his designs and purposes are
much greater than ours, and will result in
greater good to ourselves, if we learn and
follow them. While I see your nimble fin-
gers at work, so cheerfully making clothing
for those who are needy and destitute of
the comforts of life, I feel to say God bless
you. And He will bless all such, for this is
keeping His commandments; and I know
that light and joy and peace will accompany
the effort if it is done in sincerity of heart.
The Prophet Alma in the Book of Mormon
speaks of charity accompanied with humility,
as one of the greatest gifts of the gospel.
In the first place, we should feel our weak-
ness, and dependence upon our Heavenly
Father, and ask His blessing upon all that
we do. He says; "Pray three times a day."
And again, "Pray in secret." Knowing that
our success depends upon His blessing, this
is humility. But after this, if we neglect to
impart of our substance to the poor and
needy; and visit not the sick and the afflic-
ted, and impart not of our substance to those
who are in need, "I say unto you if you do
not these things behold your prayer is vain
and availeth you nothing; ye are as hypo-
crites who deny the faith; therefore if ye
do not remember to be charitable, ye are as
dross which the refiners cast out." And
again, the Apostle James (in the New Testa-
ment) says, "Religion pure and undefiled
before God and the Father is this, to visit
the widow and the fatherless in their afflc-
tions, and keep yourself unspotted from the
world." Yet you will frequently hear per-
sons say such a one is "too religious." When
I hear this I think they do not mean what
they say; but expect us to qualify the say-
ing for them in this way. They wish to see
a consistent kind of religion; in reality, a
fullness, not lacking in any point, for work
done by halves is never well done. Allow
me, my young friends, to entreat you not to
be too self-willed or conceited to listen to
your parents or guardians; for remember
there is a promise to those who obey their
parents in the Lord. "Thou shalt live long
in the land which the Lord thy God giveth
thee." Let our first object be to honor the
Father of our spirits, as a duty we owe Him,
knowing that His laws are for our greatest
good. And again, to honor our parents will
make us happy as well as them. In observ-
ing these rules, you will fill your positions
nobly upon the earth, and attain to a degree
of happiness which this world can not give
or take from you. That you may attain to
this is the sincere prayer of your sister in
the gospel.


THE circulation of the London Daily Tel-
e graph from January 1 to October 31, 1874,
inclusive, averaged 176,174 copies a day.


