		WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Fellows, the wife of the Mayor of
Camden, Arkansas, shot a drunken man
three times, last Saturday, for assailing
her.
	Mrs. Marshall, of Dubuque Iowa, has re-
ceived $2,250 for 18,000 quarts of strawber-
ries she raised last season, from three and a
half acres of ground.
	Mrs. Anna R. Evans, of Fort Dodge,
Iowa has sued nineteen saloon keepers and
owners, asking $10,000 damages for making
her husband a drunkard.
	MADAME Yoshida, wife of the new Japa-
nese minister at Washington, has engaged
a French mantua-maker, and an English
ladies' maid, as she intends to  "go into so-
ciety."
	LIZZIE Chase Huchinson, wife of Asa B.
Huchinson of the famous family of singers,
died recently in Rushford, Minnesota,
while engaged in delivering a lecture on
Temporance.
	MISS Mathilde E. Toedt, the young vio-
linist, has achieved a great triumph in gain-
ing in competitive examination the first
position in a class of over thirty pupils, all
men except herself.
	Mrs. Caroline Hardy of Groveland, Mass.,
who has been deaf for years, had her hear-
ing restored recently by a blow upon the
ear from the leg of a chair which one of the
children had tipped over..	
	THE Princess Beatrice is described as very
sharp-witted, rather shrewish in disposition
and an inverterate stickler for all the privi-
leges of her rank. She insists upon taking
precedence of the Duchess of Edinburgh,
and she does it.
	MRS. Bingham of Boston, who for several
years has edited the Ladies’ Repository, and
has done much other literary work in con-
nection with the Universalist denomination,
has retired temporarily from the paper on
account of ill health, and will soon go on a
visit to Wisconsin.
	MRS. John J. Aston, of New York, had a
special interest in the intercollegiate con-
test of January 7, and gave five hundred
dollars for the prizes. She was earnestly
desirous that the students should receive
such encouragement as would tend to estab-
lish an annually recurring intercollegiate
competition.
	THERE is a woman, sixty years old, or
more, at Hartford, who, having worked all
her life for one dollar a week and her board,
has saved between $6,000 and $7,000. She
cannot be induced to make her will, as she
fears she would be sure to die if she made
such preparations for death; and, as she has
no relatives, it is a question what will be-
come of her property.
	MARIA Vogtlin, M. D., who graduated
last spring, in Zurich, after a brilliantly sus-
tained examination, has settled there as a
practitioner in diseases of women and chil-
dren, and has already obtained an extensive
practice. She is now the wife of Dr. Helm,
one of the professors in the faculty of medi-

[Column2]
cine at Zurich. Thus women doctors are
meeting with success in Switzerland.
	ELIZABETH Cady Stanton, in the Golden
Age, asks: "Should any man of common
sense expect a class of American citizens,
who are taxed without representation, de-
nied the right of trial by jury, forbidden to
enter our colleges, compelled to teach school
at starvation wages, and snubbed generally
and everywhere, to feel cheerful, good-tem-
pered, and full of fun in the nursery?"


KEEP YOUR PROMISE.—A boy borrowed
a tool from a carpenter, promising to return
it at night. Before evening he was sent on
an errand, and did not return till late. Be-
fore he went, he was told that his brother
should see the article returned.
	After he had come and gone to bed, he in-
quired, and found that the tool had not been
sent to the owner. He was much distressed
to think his promise had not been kept,
but was persuaded to go to sleep, and rise
early and carry it home the next morn-
ing.
	By daylight he was up, and nowhere was
the tool to be found. After a long and fruit-
less search, he set off for his neighbor’s in
great distress to acknowledge his fault. But
how great was his surprise to find the tool
on his neighbor’s doorstep! And then it
appeared from the print of his little bare
feet in the mud, that he had got up in his
sleep and carried the tool home, and gone
to bed again without knowing it.
	Of course a boy who was prompt in his
sleep was prompt when awake. He lived
respected, had the confidence of his neigh-
bors, and was put in many offices of trust
and profit.
	If all the grown folks felt as this boy did,
there would be found a great many tracks of
bare feet found some of these bright morn-
ings; and what piles of tools and books
would be found lying at their owners’ doors
—Phren Journal.


The Poetical and Practical.—Miss Wordsworth,
sister to the poet, was passing through a wood
which the stock-dove was filling with his soft music
when she fell in with a countrywoman, who ex-
claimed, “I am so fond of the stock doves." "Oh!"
thought Miss Wordsworth, “at last I have come
on one of Nature’s poets with a soul to appreciate
the beautiful music of the birds.” Very ruth-
lessly was the dream disenchanted by an explana-
tory remark of the woman—"Some likes 'em in
pies and some likes 'em roasted; but for my part
I think there’s nothing like ’em stewed with
onions!”


A Washington special says: "The only two
cabinet officials who are holding along to their
business, evidently ignorant of the fact that this is
the last session in which the Republican party is
to peddle patronage, are Bristow and Jewell.
They are conducting the severe business of their
respective departments with fidelity, exactnesss,
and common sense. I have not heard of anybody
who loves either of them, but they are held in
wholesome respect in every corner of the treasury
and postoffice buildings."


