		FOURTH BIRTHDAY.

Mother in Israel, honored most, and best!
Of Saint, or woman, all the noblest traits possessed;
A mind and heart, innately pure, chaste and refined,
Such as Dame Nature scarcely ever has combined;
Sound in thy judgment, in thy faith firm and sincere,
In womanly perfection, almost, without a peer.
Under the prophet's hand ordained, and set apart,
To bless, to counsel, and instruction to impart
To all, who in humility, thy blessing seek,
To comfort those who mourn, strengthen the weak.
Thy words are precious, and should cherished be,
As pearls of wisdom, rich with grace and charity;
Within thy soul, a clear and living foutain flows.
Diffusing light and peace, content and calm repose.
Yet through afflictions dark and deep, thy path has lain.
Thy bosom hath been pierced, with keenest, sharpest pain.
And thou, in meekness, patience, and the fear of God,
Acknowledged still His hand, beneath the chastening rod;
Trusting the promise, by revelation given,
A testimony unto thee, of thy reward in heaven.
A widow, many long and lonely years, hast been,
Protected, strengthened, comforted by the "Unseen;"
Whose hand has led thee, and Whose voice is clear;
Who to the widow's prayer; still lends a listening ear;
Thy hands have ministered unto the prophet's need,
In days when friends were few, and thou, a friend indeed;
Raised up, inspired as it were, to help in ushering forth
Those principles, which in their embryo and birth,
Struggled against tradition, and the creeds of men,
At fearful odds; to bring the priesthood back again.
Honored forever be thy name, for truest worth;
And hallowed the propitious day, that gave thee birth,
Where'er thy name is known, they speak thy praise;
All womankind should strive to emulate thy ways.
A christian true art thou, in thought, in word, in deed,
Yet for the weak and erring, thy soul would pitying plead;
Forgetful of self, thou feelest another's woe,
And with a bounteous hand doth charity bestow;
Thy virtues bright shall shine in an immortal wreath
Crowning thee victor, even at the gates of death.
Blessings upon thy head, thou more than mother here,
Teacher and friend to me most truly, near and dear.
Our hearts desire for thee, more than we can express,
Long life, true joy, and an eternal happiness,
With thy belov'd companion, who has gone before
And waits to welcome thee to that immortal shore;
Forever re-united in those close and tender bonds,
Where soul to soul congenial corresponds.
Of joy and rapture sweet, to count thy sufferings o'er,
Where love eternal dwells, and partings are no more.
	Dec. 26th, 1874.						B. B.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
			 ——
 	WEST WEBER, January 10th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
   I have thought many times I should like
to write a letter for your columns. I con-
sider our little paper truthfully a valuable
instructor, for I have received many good
things through reading it. I wish that all
my sisters could realize this as some of us
do, and the paper would have a larger cir-
culation. But we must do the best we can,
and always hope for the best. We have a
good Relief Society here composed of sixty-
six members. I am happy to say that the
sisters are now alive to their duties more
than ever. We have excellent meetings,
in which the spirit of the Lord is enjoyed.
We are continually desirous of adding our
mites towards building the Temple of the
Lord, for many of us begin to realize that
we are daily growing older instead of
younger; therefore we are anxious to see
the Temple finished, that the blessings
which have been promised may be fulfilled.
Our settlement has passed through many
hardships, but I think the cloud is passing
by. The President, Elder John L. Hart, of-
ten attends our meetings and encourages us
with his kind fatherly advice and words of
cheer. President Mrs. Mary Douglas is
very diligent in looking after the needy,
causing many to rejoice and gaining the
prayers and blessings of the poor.
   With many kind wishes, I am your sister
in the Gospel,				P. S. HART.

[Column 2]
	MARRIOTSVILLE, WEBER COUNTY
				U. T. January 10th 1875.
EDITOR OF WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
   I send you a few items relative to the
Relief Society of this place. Through the
efforts of the President, her counselors and
the teachers, about forty dollars have been
raised as a donation to the Temple. The
meetings which are held alternately every
two weeks at this place and Lynne are well
attended and a good spirit prevails—the
Young Ladies' meetings are also well at-
tended.—On the 18th of last month, we
were favored with a visit from Sisters E.
R. Snow of Salt Lake City and—Clark of
Farmington, Davis Co. accompanied by
Sisters Jane Richards and Sarah L. Herrick
of Ogden City.—They all spoke feelingly
and encouragingly to us. Sister E. R.
Snow's remarks were especially able and in-
structive. They were followed by a few
encouraging remarks by Prest. F. D. Rich-
ards. 
   We remain yours truly,
		     ANN BICKINGTON Prest. 
		      CATHERINE PARRY, Secy.
				——
  FIRST WARD, S. L. City, Jan. 11th, 1875
DEAR EDITOR:—
   The Young Ladies Association of the
First Ward, was organized April 2nd, 1874.
Miss E. R. Snow was present, and instructed
us concerning our positions as members of the
Society and as children of the Latter-day
Saints. Mrs. M. I. Horne and Mrs. E. How-
ard also spoke encouragingly to us, and
Bishop Warburton blessed us, and the Sis-
ters in their traveling from place to place to
do good. Mrs. Sarah Graham was chosen
as President, of the Young Ladies' Associa-
tion; and for counselors, Mrs. A. Campbell,
Mrs. G. Cuthbert, Mrs. E. Hill, Mrs. M.
Hawkins, Mrs. E. Chase, and Mrs. J. Van-
Tassel; Miss S. R. Smith was chosen for Secre-
tary and Miss A. Adams assistant Secretary.
Twenty-four young ladies then joined as
members. We can realize that the organi-
zation has been a great blessing to us and
that we are constantly improving. On the
6th inst., we had an excellent meeting at
Sister Margaret Steel's. The girls are over-
coming their timidity, and many of them
are able to bear noble testimonies to the
truth. We appreciate your worthy efforts
and wish you great success.
		MRS. S. GRAHAM, President,
		 MISS S. R. SMITH, Secretary.
				——
   Last fall Miss Snow, assisted by Mrs. Zina
 D. Young, Mrs. Howard and Mrs. Grant,
established a branch of the Young Ladies'
Association in Grantsville, under the presi-
dency of Miss Rachel Hale and superinten-
dence of Mrs. Mary Cook. Having a little
time to spare, I attended their last meeting.
It was a very pleasant sight, so many young
ladies meeting together for mutual improve-
ment. There seemed to exist among them
no element of discord; each desirous of
gaining and giving. The harmony seemed
perfect, so much so as to astonish me. If
they go on as they have commenced, they
soon will be a powerful element for good in
Grantsville. One of the Counselors expressed
her wish for more union and greater efforts
for improvement, and her words seemed
the sentiments of every heart present.
There were readings from the EXPONENT
and questions and answers from the Cate-
chism in the "Juvenile Instructor." Some
of the readings were well rendered. A
poem by elder P. P. Pratt on attaining the
fiftieth anniversary of his birthday, and an-
swer by Elder John Taylor were well re-
cited by two very young ladies. In such

[Column 3]
meetings can be seen how much of intellect
the young ladies possess. And it will be
seen by an impartial observer at a glance,
they fully equal the young gentlemen in
keen bright intelligence; and when they
join to this the determination to do right,
they, (the young ladies) can do very much
towards making this earth a heaven. And
if all the young ladies' organizations are
growing like this one, the young gentlemen
will have to bestir themselves, or be left in
the back grounds.				MARY.
   Grantsville, Jan. 1875.
				——
			S. L. CITY, Jan. 27th, 1875.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
   The Juvenile Relief Society of the 17th
Ward was organized Sept. 17th, 1873, by
Miss E. R. Snow,with the following officers.
President, Emerett Brown; Counselors, Liz-
zie Jacques and Mary Davis; Treasurer,
Melvia Calder; Secretary, Edith Smith. At
the organization, there were present, Sister
Higgs and Sister Howe, who were appoin-
ted Superintendent and assistant Superin-
tendent. We have meetings every other
week, which are well attended by the Young
Ladies, all of whom take an active part in
aiding the progress of the Society. At our
first annual meeting, which took place on
the 17th day of Sept., 1874, we had a very
good time and were blessed with good in-
structions from Sister Hyde, Sister Howe,
Sister Horne and others.
		Yours Truly,
		  EMERETT BROWN, President.
			EDITH SMITH, Secretary.
			   ——
   The second annual meeting of the 10th
Ward Young Ladies'Retrenchment Associa-
tion, was held in the new Meeting house,
agreeable to adjournment, on the 8th of Jan.,
1875. Opened by singing, "O give me
back my Prophet dear." Prayer by Br. S.
B. Smith. Singing, "May we who know
the joyful sound." Minutes of previous
meeting were read and accepted.
   President Mrs. M. J. Pearce arose and
made a few introductory remarks, after
which Sister E. R. Snow arose and said:—
"The house of God is a house of order—by
invitation from the president of the Young
Ladies' Association, I arise and speak to you
my sisters, and that I may speak so as to
benefit you, I wish your faith and prayers.
While looking around this Hall, so beauti-
fully decorated, I feel as though the angels
of God must like to be here if the hearts of
the people are fit to receive them. The
Spirit of God is in our midst, and I feel as
though His angels were here. I was pleased
to hear that the young men have organized
into a Deacon's Quorum. Literary Associa-
tions are good in their way, but it is spirit-
ual culture, spiritual food the young want.
You are to fit and prepare yourselves to fill
high positions in the Kingdom of God; does
the education of the world prepare you for
this? does it prepare you to associate in the
holy Order of the house of God? No! It
only fits you to be ornaments in Babylon.
In our young ladies' retrenchment associa-
tion, we have little girls who get up and tes-
tify that this is the kingdom of God. Does
the literature of the world prompt this? No!
I think not. When the young ladies began
to organize these associations there were
many elderly people so kind as to ask, 'What
is the use of the young ladies meeting to-
gether to speak and pray?' I replied, 'what
is the use of any of us meeting together?'
The Lord says where there are a few gath-
ered together in His name there will He be
also, in their midst, and that to bless them.
In Ogden the young gentlemen and ladies


[Column 1]
hold their meetings together. I like this
idea; it helps them to overcome a great deal
of embarrassment, and those who attend
the meetings most regularly will make the
best men and women. The young ladies have
made resolutions not to associate with any
of the young men who drink, smoke, &c.
The young men are also getting up resolu-
tions. I see the result, it is to purify and
exalt them. And they will know better
who to choose as husbands and wives. I as-
sure you, my young sisters, that this great
work cannot be accomplished without wo-
men! and it is for us to be up and doing.
Do not indulge in any gross language or
manners or any vulgarity before your
children; the rising generation is to bear off
this kingdom, and the young men are to be
pillars in the same. I am thankful that the
current has turned heavenward, that they
may be saviors on Mount Zion. The time is
fast approaching when angels will visit the
earth, yes, the time is near and who shall be
prepared? It will be these young people
who are stepping forward and are willing to
serve God and keep His commandments.
Again I say God bless you my sisters."
	Sister Zina D. Young said: "The subject
of prayer is something for us to reflect upon.
When one prays, if each one of us would
repeat in our hearts the words that are spoken
and then say amen, it has a power which
reaches within the vail. Jesus came to this
world and gave us each the privilege of
wearing a crown; how beautiful to think of!
The treasure is priceless. It is the privilege
of the Saints to find balm for every wound.
A mother may forget her infant, but God
will not forget Israel. When I look around
and see these grand mountains and peaceful
valleys, I think how kind He was to give
them to us; but it was not without going
through trouble. Sisters take care of your
health and you will not only benefit your-
selves but also future generations. When
you are sick and afflicted have faith and you
will recover. The book of Doctrine and
Covenants says "The Lord will come when
the faith of the Saints is sufficient."
	Sister M. I. Horne made remarks—"I knew
the Spirit of God was here when I entered
the room. The decorations are beautiful and
the young ladies of the 10th Ward have be-
gun the New Year very well by inviting
their elder sisters to their meeting. We
can speak on different subjects and it does
not make the meeting monotonous, but it all
tends to the same end. You, young ladies,
have great responsibilities to fulfill, and it is
for you to prepare yourselves for such. The
men are called to one part of this great vine-
yard and the women to another; but is the
woman's part less honorable? I think not.
The young have not been restrained enough
in times past. They have been allowed to
grow up in a reckless manner, and it is for
the mothers in Israel to teach and guide
them, and draw their children towards
them, and gain their confidence. My young
sisters be like Mary of old, and choose the
better part; follow not in the way of the
Gentiles, but strive to live pure and holy
before God. Jesus says, "If ye love me
keep my commandments;" and although
you may have to go through great trials, it
is only to make you more steadfast, for
everything that can be shaken will be sha-
ken. It is for us to first seek the kingdom
of God and His righteousness and all other
things will be added unto us.
	Sister M. P. Young then made some ex-
cellent remarks; after which Sister East
arose and wished all present a Happy New
Year, and said she felt inspired to give
thanks that we are the happy recipients of

[Column 2]
the spiritual feast received this afternoon.
After making some good remarks in refer
ence to health and its laws, she concluded
with saying that God had called Israel from
the East, West, North and South and estab-
lished His kingdom never more to be thrown
down. The Pioneers of the church are
passing away, and the rising generation are
to improve themselves that they may be far-
ther advanced, for there is no stand still to
the kingdom of God.
	Sister Mary Freeze bore a faithful testimo-
ny, after which Sister Barney made appro-
priate remarks on the duties of mothers, and
concluded with saying that this is the wind-
ing up scene and it will not be long before
the dividing line will be drawn.
	Bro. Samuel B. Smith read an original
essay entitled "Pride," which was followed
by testimonies from a number of the breth-
ren present, that they felt to endorse all thatthe sisters had said.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing "We thank Thee O God for a Prophet,"
Benediction by Bro. Wm. Poll.
				M. H. Paul, Secretary.


