		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Potato Puff.—Two cups of cold, mashed pota-
toes; stir in two tablespoonfuls of melted butter,
heating to a cream; add two well-beaten eggs, one
cup of cream or milk; pour into a deep dish; bake
in a quick oven.
	Jelly Rolls.—Take three eggs, half a cup of
sugar, a cup of flour, a teaspoonful of soda, or, in lieu
of the soda and cream tartar, one and a half tea-
spoonfuls of baking powder; bake in thin cakes;
spread with jelly and roll up with the jelly side
in; cut in slices across the roll.
	Cloth Mittens.—Take any soft, strong cloth, of
all wool, and the same amount of Canton flannel,
if you have it; let the hand be laid flat on a piece
of paper, marked round with a pencil, then cut
out a pattern, allowing for seams; cut the lining
bias so as to have a spring to it, stitch the flannel
and lining separate, turn the seams together inside,
bind the wrist, leaving the mitten open two inches
on the under part of the hand, work a button-hole
on one side, sew a strong button on the other, and
you will have a durable mitten.
	Apple Snow.—Pare and core eight or ten tart,
juicy apples, boil them in water sufficient to cover
them, till they are soft, taking care to keep them
whole; then remove them from the stew pan, mak-
ing a sirup of nice, white sugar, and replace them;
let them simmer slowly till they are amber col-
ored, then place in a glass preserve dish; beat to a
stiff froth, the whites of eight eggs, and two
thirds of a cup of sugar, and spread over the top.
It is improved by being kept on ice, and is grate-
ful to the eye and palate, either for desert or tea.
The yolks of the eggs may be used in making a 
boiled custard.
	Fruit Pudding.—Make a crust of graham flour,
sour cream, soda and a pinch of salt.  Pass the
flour through a coarse seive, so as to relieve it of
the larger bits of bran.  For a family of six
persons line a quart basin with the crust, a quarter
of an inch thick.  Fill the basin thus lined, with

[Column 2]
fruit—plums or peaches are the best.  Let the
fruit be of the choicest variety. Cover the whole
with a rather thick crust, and steam until the crust
is thoroughly cooked.  Serve with white sugar and
thick, sweet cream.  This is the queen of puddings
and can be eaten with a (comparatively) clear con-
science.—Herald of Health.
	Hints to Mothers.—Dear Sisters, "Troubled Mar-
thas" and "Tired Mothers," I have been a 
housekeeper for twelve years, have three children
and a family of six to do for (and I do it all my-
self,) besides being a farmer's wife, which many
think such a dreadful thing.  I have learned many
things by experience, which, although a good
teacher, is sometimes rather severe, and I have
been thinking if I could have started in life with
just the experience and knowledge of a wife's and
mother's work that I now have, what a deal of
trouble and anxiety it would have saved me.
	Cannot I help some one? Many things come
rushing to my mind at the present moment that I
have learned by experience, but have only time to
add a little now, and a another time (if this finds
room in your paper) will tell you some more.  I
may as well confess that this is the first time I ever
wrote to an editor in my life.  I will only speak
of the care of  children to-night, for, above all
things, I believe this to be of the highest value.
	I have learned by experience (for my first child
was sadly neglected) that children should have reg-
ular habits, especially in eating and sleeping. Do
not, as you prize their health, give them "pieces"
between meals after they are two years old. Be-
fore that give them something between the three
meals, but let it be at regular times each day.  It
will give tired mothers more rest, for they will not be
teasing for something to eat, and it will give your
child far better health.
	Command or oblige your children to sleep once
through the day, and insist upon its being at a par-
ticular time of day.  If you do not let them miss
the time for a "nap" for a few days, you will be
surprised to see how sleepy they will become just
at that time, and how soon they will drop to sleep
and how refreshed they will be when they awake.
And you, tired mother, will have such a rest; and 
I would recommend that every mother should lie
down with her children just a few moments.  Cer-
tainly you would thereby be more refreshed for
the labors the remainder of the day.—R.N.
Yorker.


