MAKE YOURSELF USEFUL.

	It is an unquestionable fact, that capacity of-
ten fits one person for a position that could not be
sustained by another. Capacity also qualifies
almost any person, for filling some position or
accomplishing some work more successfully
than anything else that might be undertaken.
	In consideration of these principles, it is the
duty of every individual to seek, understand-
ingly, to know the proper course to pursue, the
right place to occupy, the best thing to do in
order that the greatest amount of good may be
accomplished with the least waste of time and
expense.
	Sometimes we have heard such remarks as
"I have no forte, I do not think I was designed
to excel in anything." "I don't believe I was
blest with any gift whatever, or that I possess
ability for anything." I have tried nearly all
kinds of work, and do not like any one of
them.” These are but fanciful ideas, having
no foundation in truth, if the individual is real-
ly desirous of benefiting the world, friends or
self. 
	Even if circumstances seem to conflict in
every attempt, and disappointments rather than
success are met on every hand for a time, there
is yet one course left which cannot fail if ear-
nestly and faithfully pursued. Man may have
erred in his own judgment; friends may have
misguided by kindly meant but injudicious ad-
vice; but if he asks of God, in faith, He will
not misrepresent things, but will give the re-
quired knowledge, and help to prepare the way
and person for the performance of some good
work.
	No one need be idle, though the immediate
duties presented may not seem just what would
best suit the disposition, or capacity, of the
seeker for employment. A better way than
giving up in disgust because of self-insufficien-
cy, because some one else can push ahead faster,
is to work with a will at whatever must be
done, or may be done, determined to be con-


science clear at least, having done all that was
possible, in the best possible manner according
to the means and abilities possessed. What-
ever art is learned well, fits mind or body the
more perfectly for the performance of some
other work—though the two may be entirely
unlike—and prepares the individual much more
than standing still would do, for the right posi-
tion when it is presented.
	Be of some use to the world, cultivate some
useful quality, learn to love useful employment
of whatever nature it may consist, and the time
will never drag, the hours never move wearily.


