	FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THERE are 12,000 periodicals taken at
the Brittish Museum,
	THERE are over one hundred logging
camps on Wolf River, Wis.
	The property of the late Congressman
Crocker is estimated at $1,000,000.
	TWELVE States have adopted compulsory
education laws, New York being the last to
do so.
	NEARLY two thousand hogs have been
shipped from West Bend, Wis., since the
opening of the packing season.
	There are 121 students in the State Agri-
cultural College at Orono Maine, five of
whom are young women.
	LOUISVILLE claims that she has heard a
greater number of operas this season than
any other city in the Union, New York not
excepted.
	SO numerous are the additions to the
library of Harvard College that new shelves
to accommodate 2,000 volumes are in course
of construction.
	GERRIT Smith left an estate worth be-
tween $700,000 and $800,000. consisting
principally of property in Oswego City,
which will probably be divided between his
two children.
	The membership of Plymouth Church is
made up of 1,504 females and 886 males,
which is not at variance with the propor-
tions of the sexes in most religious bodies.
	OLIVER Downing, a well-known Boston
architect, has just died on the day of the
funeral of his wife, he being 90 years old
and she 87, they having lived together 67
years.
	THE New Zealand Government has sent
special agents over to England for the pur-
pose of collecting a quantity of small birds
of various kinds, and a colony of humble-
bees, for introduction into that country,
	THE Earl and Countess of Dudley lost a
package of jewelry valued at $250,000 at a
railway station in England recently. They
have offered a reward of $5,000 for its re-
covery.
	KING Kalakaua has, it is said, an in-
come of $22,500 per annum. This is de-
rived from a tax of 5 cents on every $100
worth of property $1 on every horse and
$5 on every carriage owned and run in his
dominions.
	THE original discovery of Sharon's great
mine was made in 1859, when the region
was known as Washoe. Since then nearly
two hundred millions' worth of silver and
gold has been drawn from the lode.
	PARIS it is estimated, contains 120,000
women who are dependent upon their
needle for support. The highest rate of pay
is about 70 cents per day, while the aver-
age pay when fully employed, is not over
24 cents for l2 hours work. 
	SINCE the beginning of the famine in Asia
Minor 50,000 persons have migrated from
various parts of the country to the City of
Adana. Half of them have since succumbed
to disease. The strange climate and ex-
treme rapaciousness of the tax-gatherers
tend to aggravate the distress and increase
the mortality.
	CAPTAIN Boynton, of New Jersey, has
invented an apparatus, which enables a
swimmer to remain hours and even days in
the roughest water with security. He ex-

[Column 2]

hibited his patent swimming apparatus on
Monday afternoon, Oct. 26th, in Queens-
town Harbor. He swam a mile with the
greatest ease, and was three-quarters of an
hour in the water. It is stated he intends
swimming across St. George's Channel be-
fore returning to this country.


