KISSING BABY.

	Our esteemed friend, Professor J. L. Barfoot
of the Salt Lake Museum, calls our attention
to an article on the subject of baby kissing,
which appeared in a late number of the "Sci-
entific American."
	The writer of the article delineates the evils
which are liable to arise from the habit, declares
the practice to be a pestilential one and says
farther, "Murderous would be the proper word,
did the kissers know the mischief they do."
	It appears that a slight cold or sore throat in
an adult, will be communicated to a child,
causing diptheria, with, too often, fatal results,
by the simple act of kissing.  The fact of this
statement, we consider too apparent to require
justification from our pen.  And that no surer
means of spreading contagions could be adopt-
ed than the mingling of breaths by kissing, is
a truth too commonly known to require any ex-
planation.  But we hope that more attention
and reflection will be given to this highly im-
portant subject, than has hitherto been mani-
fested.
	Think, mothers, of a man whose breath is
nauseous with tobacco or whiskey, coaxing
your infant son or daughter to kiss him! Many
such men have large hearts and great love for
children; but they should be taught that for
them to offer to kiss a child is an insult instead
of a compliment.
	Indeed, we are of the opinion, that to avoid
kissing the lips of children altogether, would
be sensible on the part of men and women.
How does a person know, though apparently in
perfect health—as not many people profess to
be nowadays—that the stronger and more pow-
erful breath of an adult may not be injurious
or at least disagreeable, if inhaled by the respi-
ration of a child?  Pleasant as it may be to ca-
ress and fondle the little ones, who would not
forgo the pleasure of kissing them for their own
sweet sakes?
	The writer in the "Scientific American,"
thus concludes the article: "A single kiss has
been known to infect a family; and the most
careful may be in condition to communicate
the disease (diptheria) without knowing it.
Beware then, of playing Judas, and let the ba.
bies alone."


