LITTLE FOLKS.
	A LITTLE three year old referred to the
dark brown biddy as, “Our dark complected
hen.”
	“OPEN oos boo eyes mine tat," is the way
in which a mother’s darlirig addressed his
gray pussy. 
	“Now, Sammy, tell me, have you read the
story of Joseph?" “Oh, yes, uncle.” “Well,
then, what wrong did they do when they
sold their brother?” “They sold him too
cheap, I think.”			
	“THERE is one good thing about babies,”
said a recent traveler; “they never change.
We have girls of the period, men of the
world; but the baby is the same self-pos-
sessed, fearless, laughing, voracious little
heathen in all ages and in all countries.”
	A SCHOOLBOY spelled “sob,” and when
asked to define it, blundered out: “It means
when a feller don’t want to cry, and it bursts
out itself.” Another defined a comma as “a
period with a tail.”
	The other evening a cat was making a
piteous noise outside the door, when the lit-
tle daughter of our friend, imagined it was
singing about the cold weather and said,
“Mama, I wish kitty wouldn’t sing that song
any more, it makes my toes cold.”
	A little boy in Springfield, Ill., after his
customary evening prayer, a night or two
ago, continued, “and bless mamma, and
Jerry, and Uncle Benny,” adding, after a
few moment’s pause the explanatory re-
mark, “his name is Hopkins.”  
	A LITTLE girl in Vermont called at a drug
store and said: “My mother wants ten cents’
worth of jumps.” She insisted that that
was what she had been sent for, and the
clerk had to send her back for further in-
structions. Very soon she returned, and
said it was hops that she wanted.
	WHAT A CHILD CAN DO.—A little boy
who attended a temperance meeting was
asked by his father when he returned:—
“Have you learned anything, my boy?”
“Yes, father, I have. I have learned never
to put strong drink to my lips; for it has
killed fifty thousand persons annually, and
how do I know that it will not kill me?”
	A YOUNGSTER, seven years old, who hap-
pens to be one of a dozen bright children,
was saying his evening prayer, a day or two
ago, while in a rather sleepy condition. It
is his custom to begin with, “O Lord, bless
father and mother,” and then go through
the rest by name. On this occasion he got
as far as father and mother, when his sleepi-
ness overcame him, and he finished up as
follows: “And I’m in a hurry, bless the
whole crowd;” and, in the twinkling of an
eye, was between the sheets.


