			HOME AFFAIRS.

	PEOPLE CALLING on business concerning the
EXPONENT, will oblige us by taking notice that
our published days for business, are Tuesdays
and Saturdays.
	THE TEACHERS of the University of Deseret
have been having an examination of its pupils.
Great satisfaction, with all concerned, as to the
progress made, is the result.
	THE NARROW gauge railroad will soon be ex-
tended from Ogden to this city.  There is no
lack of enterprise, force and determination in
our Utah railroad men; and their efforts to in-
crease the facilities for improvement throughout
the country are ever commendable.
	SEVERAL SNOWSLIDES have occurred in the
Cottonwood Kanyons within the past two
weeks, by two of which a number of persons
were killed.  On Tuesday, the 19th ult., at Al-
ta, in Little Cottonwood, two men, a woman
and two children were buried in an avalanche
and died before they could be extricated.  The
day following this mournful event, six men
met the same fate in Big Cottonwood Kanyon.
	IT IS a little surprising, after all that has been
published relative to anonymous correspon-
dence, that a St. George bachelor, who reads
and appreciates the EXPONENT, should send us
such a production, begging to be excused as he
"can only add to the initials Bachelor." We
only add that unless he sends us his name, we
cannot publish his article, which is, however,
an interesting one.
	A YOUNG lady who resides in Tooele city
called upon us one morning lately, when the

[Column 2]
weather was cold and blustering.  She was go-
ing home that day, and we remarked that the
journey would be somewhat tedious. "But I
shall go within fifteen miles of home on the
cars, and going so quickly does not seem at all
wearisome, like the old way of jogging along
all day in a wagon," was her pleasant reply.
It sounded very comfortable and made us think
again, that the people should highly appreciate
the labors of the hardy men who build the rail-
roads, as well as the enterprising spirit of the
contractors.
	KING KALAKAUA of the Hawaiian Islands,
passed through Ogden on his return homeward,
Sunday, the 24th ult.  His majesty in a letter
to Mayor Wells and the members of the City
Council, expressed regrets that he was not able
to accept their invitation to visit this city, hav-
ing been detained in the East longer than he
anticipated.  And he was pleased to meet at
Ogden, a delegation from Salt Lake, compris-
ing the Mayor and a number of other gentle-
men.  So the populace of our city didn't get to
feast their eyes on a "real, live king" this time,
after all.  But a sharp witted young lady sug-
gests that rather than die about it, they might
each in turn, call upon the amiable and ever
hospitable Hannah T.
	ALBERT STICKNEY, of Payson, Utah Co., was
recently killed by a snowslide in Summit Kan-
yon. We take this opportunity of extending
heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved wife and
children. It is ever a trying ordeal to yield be-
loved friends to the cold grasp of death, even
when long days and nights of anxious watching
have in some degree prepared the clinging heart
tendrils to slacken their firm clasp.  But when
the keen dart enters in an unguarded moment
and unsuspected form—as in the case of Brother
Stickney—we have had occasion to knew, per-
sonally, that no language can express the heart's
anguish, which can only be overcome by the
strongest resolution, lapse of time and devout
confidence in God, that He doeth all things
well for those who trust in Him.  Sister Stick-
ney is a special friend of the EXPONENT, and
in this we would offer sympathy, and if possi-
ble a word of consolation.


