FLOWERS.

	AVOID extremes and you ward off ill
luck.
	IT is better to do and not promise than to
promise and not do.
	AVAIL yourself of all your knowledge
without making a display of it.  The ma-
chinery works best when hidden from
view.
	IT is the motto of every true heart, and
the genius of every noble life, that "no man
liveth to himself"—lives chiefly for his own
selfish good.
	IT is a law of our intellectual and mora
being that we promote our own happiness
in the exact proportion that we contribute
to the comfort and enjoyment of others.
	NOTHING worthy of the name of happi-
ness is possible in the experience of those
who live only for themselves, and oblivious
of the welfare of their fellows.
	THE lessons of life are for the most part
slowly learned.  The page is often carelessly
turned and hurriedly passed by, on which
our Great Father has written much that He
would fain have us study.
	YES, live for something worthy of life
and its capabilities and opportunities, for
noble deeds and achievments.  Every man
and every woman has his or her assignment
in the duties and responsibilities of daily
life.
	THE more people do the more they can
do.  He that does nothing renders himself
incapable of doing anything.  While we
are executing one work, we are preparing
to undertake another.
	SEE that each hour's feelings and thoughts
and actions are pure and true; then will
your life be such.  The wide pastures are
but separate spears of grass; the sheeted
bloom of the prairies but single flowers.
	WE are in the world to make the world
better; to lift it up to higher levels of en-
joyment and progress, to make its hearts
and homes brighter and happier by devot-
ing to our fellows our best thoughts, activi-
ties, and influence.
	CHEERFULNESS is an excellent wearing
quality.  It has been called the bright
weather of the heart.  It gives harmony
to the soul, and is a perpetual song without
words. It is tantamount to repose. It ena-
bles nature to recruit its strength; whereas
worry and discontent debilitate it; involv-
ing constant wear and tear.
	ADORN YOUR HOMES.—Some one writes
both gracefully and forcibly: "I would be
glad to see more parents understand that
when they spend money judiciously to im-
prove and adorn the house and the grounds
around it, they are in effect paying their
children a premium to stay at home as much
as possible and enjoy it; but when they
spend money unnecessarially in fine cloth-
ing and jewelry for their children, they are
paying them a premium to spend their time
away from home—that is, in those places
where they can attract the most attention
and make the most display."


