			PLANTS.

	The native flora of this mountain region
is rich, beyond the conception of those who
pass through the vallies and over the hills
and mountains unobserving and carelessly.
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	Our interesting plants are so numerous,
and each bringing its own peculiar interest,
or loveliness, makes it almost sacrilage to
name a few in preference to the scores
equally meritorious; and we should be as
prone to leave the most rare and desired un-
mentioned, as to satisfy a majority of flor-
ists that we have selected the most worthy;
but we will note a few that to our unpro-
fessional eye appears most magnificent and
beautiful.
		YUCCA BREVIFOLIA
forms a tree often from twelve to twenty
feet high, forming a curiously wrought
head of branches and short leaves, and in
June, a magnificent head of white bloom
appears from twelve to twenty-four inches
long, followed by a good sized fruit that
bears the seed.
		YUCCA BACCATA
forms a stool from five to eight feet across,
with long fleshy leaves, and in May sends
up flower stems from four to seven feet
high, having a profusion of huge lily-shaped,
wax like flowers, whose beauty and sweet-
ness makes it worthy the boudoir of a prin-
cess.
		DALEA JOHNSONII,
a shrub growing upon sand and clay land,
four feet high, covered in May with long
racemes of pea shaped bloom, of intense
bright blue, producing upon a lawn or in a
garden a charming effect.
		PENSTEMONS.
Of this family of plants there are a great
variety; ranging in color from the fragrant
white to the intensely bright scarlet, whose
bloom, resembling the fuchsia, droops in na-
tive modesty among the rocks and preci-
pices.
		OF CACTUS,
the great variety would make an extended
list, with wonderful diversity of size, shape
and beauty of bloom, from the delicate
Mammalaria Phellosperma to the huge Cere-
us Le Contir, often growing a foot or more
in diameter and five or six feet high, cov-
ered with six inch spines; or opuntia ech-
inocarpa, that forms a tree of no inconsider-

[Column 2]
able size and producing abundance of green-
ish yellow bloom, from its branching, tree
like top.—Another unnamed variety opens a
profusion of bloom each day at precisely the
hour of twelve. The Cereas Engelmanii, a
new vareity, is among the most charming
of blooming cactus and the Echinocactus
Johnsonii is a bristling, new, strange and
rare sort.
		OENOTHERA
also abound in great variety. Two dwarfs,
yellow and white, their bloom daily (or
nightly) appears for weeks, the flowers
opening with a whiff and a crash instanta-
neously just after sunset; a most remarkable
plant, yielding much amusement for the
curious watcher. The dwarfs are new
varieties, Oenethera Johnsonii Parry.
		CHILOPLIS LINEARIS.
	An entirely new variety of Catalpa.
Shrubbry tree, 15 to 20 feet high loaded
with pendent racemes of tri-colored bloom,
foliage long and narrow, branches long and
slender, and having the appearance of a
handsome willow, weeping with a load of
showy blossoms—seed pod size of a goose
quill, and a foot long.
	CALOCHORTUS FLEXUOSUS.
	A most lovely, wax-like, tulipshaped tir-
colored lilly-like blossom, from a bulb, edi-
ble and sweet as a nut. Flower stem 6 - 12
inches high.
		LARREA MEXICANA.
A beautiful evergreen, a shrub 4 to 8 feet
high; bright yellow bloom in June, emitting
a powerful perfume resembling Iodine. Fo-
liage glossy and fernlike. A very noticea-
ble and desirable shrub.
	MALVASTRUM DODINEUM.
	Perennial, from 1 to 2 feet high flowers
delicate scarlet, profusely laden in June.
Very showy and beautiful.
			Licium———?
A shrub about four feet high, highly laden
in June with scarlet berries, sweet and rich,
about the size of a currant, nice for dry-
ing.
		AGAVE UTAHENSE,
a new plant with thick, short, spikey leaves
and flower stalks ten or twelve feet high,
bulb edible, rich and sweet. And so we
might go on with enumeration, and cover a
quire of fools-cap, but our limits forbid for
the present, but will simply add, that a com-
plete collection of only the smaller plants,
leaving out the new and beautiful evergreen
trees and shrubs, would form a garden of
princely beauty and grace, vieing with the
best gardens of the East.—"Utah Pomolog-
ist."


"Never be ashamed to apologize when you
have done wrong in domestic affairs," says
an eminent divine. "Let that be a law of
your household. The best thing I ever
heard of my grandfather, whom I never saw
was this: that once having unrighteously
rebuked one of his children, he himself—
having lost his patience, and perhaps been
misinformed of the child's doings— found
out his mistake, and in the evening of the
same day gathered all his family together
and said, 'Now I have one explanation to
make and one thing to say. Thomas, this
morning I rebuked you in the presence of
the whole family, and now I ask your for-
giveness in their presence.' It must have
taken some courage to do that. It was
right, was it not? Never be ashamed to
apologize for domestic inaccuracy.


CAN you spell consent in three letters?
Y-e-s.


