		DIVERSIONS.
	HORSE thieves are serenaded in Texas by
string bands.
	IF you do not like your neighbor, buy his
child a small drum.
	THE tax which presses most heavily on 
schoolboys is syntax.
	GOV. Peck of Vermont is a bachelor.
Marrying would make half a bushel of him.
	THE proper salutationwhen you meet a
writing master is, "How do you flourish?"
	A MINNESOTA man makes the winter
seem short by giving his note payable in the
spring.
	"SALLY, at what time do your folks
dine?" "Soon as you go away—that's mis-
sus' orders."
	"YOU look as if you were beside your-
self," said a wag to a fellow who stood by 
the side of an ass.
	A YOUNG lady says she longs for fingers
like the tongs of a pitchfork, with diamond
rings enough to fill them to the ends.
	"YOU don't seem to know how to take
me," said a vulgar fellow to a gentleman
whom he had insulted. "Yes, I do," said
the gentleman, taking him by the nose.
	QUEEN Victoria went to a garden party at
Chiswick recently, and a gentlemen present
told her he remembered her face, but he
couldn't for the life of him, recall her 
name.
	AN English writer says, in his advice to
young married women, that their mother 
Eve married a gardener. It might be add-
ed that the gardener, in consequence of the
match, lost his situation.
	IT'S truly astonishing how the papers,
while they persist in charging a man a dollar
an inch for advertising when living, cheer-
fully give up a whole column of space for 
nothing when his obituary comes along.
	"Do you know why you are like the third
term?" said Susan Jane to her brother, who
lingered to talk with her Adolphus after the
old folks had retired. "No, I don't." "Well,"
replied his saccharine sister, "It's becuase
you're one too many."
	"Everything goes wrong," said an Illi-
nois farmer, wiping his eyes. "The grass-
hoppers cum, the hired man broke his leg,
wife died, the barn burned, and I've rid for
three days and can't find a woman who
wants to marry."
	WHILE T. D. Jones was in Columbus mod-
elling his bust of Chase, a young man of the
Sparkler order of architects, approached
him one night at a social gathering with the
following inquiry: "Er-er—say! er-er so
you're the man-er—that makes mud heads
ain't you?" "Yes," said old Tom, blandly;
"Do you want a new one?"
	LONG ago, during the Millerite fever,
when ascension robes were in order, and all
were listening for the chariot-wheels, a good
couple had retired one night-the man
somewhat visionary, but his wife practical
enough. In the ebb of a midwinter night
he awoke, hearing a slight noise, and gently
nudged his sleeping partner.  "Wife, I hear
the chariot wheels of God." "Lie still John,
you old fool; the Lord would not come on 
wheels, with such good sleighing."
	A YOUNG man from the country lately
volunteered his services to gallant a young
lady home from a party. On his way, he
cudgelled his brains for some interesting
[Column 2]
topic of conversation to amuse her with, but
in vain; he could hit upon nothing until
they met several cows, when the swain siad,
with much simplicity of manner:—"Now,
isn't it strange what a motherly appearance
a cow has!" To which the young lady re-
plied: "I do not think it strange, sir, that a
cow should have a motherly appearance to a
calf!"
	"HOW much is your stick candy?" in-
quired a boy of a candy dealer.
	"Six sticks for five cents."
	"Six sticks for five cents, eh? Now, 
lem'me see. Six sticks for five cents, five
fer four cents, four fer three cents, three fer
two cents, two fer one cent, one fer nothin'.
I'll take one." And he walked out, leaving
the candy man in a state of bewilderment.


