HYGIENIC NOTES.

	TO PREVENT A CHILL.—A sitz bath of
hot water with the feet also in hot water,
continued until a thorough sweat has been
taken. Then get into cold water all over,
or have cold water dashed all over you im-
mediately upon getting out of the hot
bath.
	SLEEPING.—Young children should not
be allowed to sleep in the same bed with
aged people. By physical contact, the vital-
ity is absorbed out of the one body into the
other, producing sometimes the most alarm-
effects to the child. No child should be put
to sleep with a person whose health is in
any way impaired.
	NEUBALGIA.—This painful disease has
been cured instantaneously by sponging the
affected part first in water as warm as could
be comfortably borne, and immediately af-
ter in cold water, and then rubbing hard
and briskly with a coarse towel. Rheumat-
ic pains have been repeatedly removed in
the same manner. This treatment will also
remove the inconvenience of cold feet.
	REMEDIES FOR COUGH.—Tea made from
slippery-elm. Or a pint of milk with a lit-
tle coal thrown in, simmered to half a pint.
An excellent syrup is made by simmering
together for half an hour, a half pint of mo-


lasses, the same of vinegar and a quarter
of a pund of raisins when cold a few drops
of laudanum may be stirred in.
	WASHING THE BLOOD.—The Journal of
Health says that the blood can as well be
washed as any other portion of the human
system; but to drink tea, coffee, chocolate,
cocoa, beer or cider does not tend to purify
the blood. On the contrary, such infusions
befoul and defile the blood. But by drink-
ing pure water often, but in small quanti-
ties, the entire inner system, including the
blood, may be thoroughly washed between
Saturday evening and Monday morning,
after which the outside skin should be well
washed.
	INCIPIENT CONSUMTION.—Dr. James C.
Jackson says, in the case of incipient con-
sumption, the patient should eat unleavened
bread, or unbolted wheat flour in some sim-
ple form of preparation. If milk is eaten it
should be skimmed.  Little sugar and no
salt should be used.  No tea, coffee or con-
diments, nor any kind of medicines should
be taken. A sitz bath three times a week
and a wash-off over the whole body the
other three days should be taken, the first
in a comfortably warm room, the latter in a
warm room. An abdominal bandage should
be worn. House labor, especially kitchen
work should be avoided, and pleasant ex-
ercise taken in the open air. Excitement
of all kinds should be avoided, and plenty
of sleep secured.


