	ROCKSVILLE, KANE CO., Jan. 6th, 1875.
DEAR LULA:—
	I write according to promise, that you
may know where we are and how we are.
I am now at Sister P—'s, she that was the
widow A— when we "crossed the plains."
She is now the widow P.—, left a widow
the second time!  I came here to write be-
cause it is quiet.
The President desired us to go to Springdale
and there assist in building up a settlement.
At one time there were about twenty fami-
lies there, but they were called away they
say, into larger settlements, when the Indi-
ans were troublesome; and now there is not
much of a settlement there.  But the scen-
ery is picturesque, and it is one of the hid-
ing places of the Almighty, a very good one 
I think.  I hope to see the day when all our
family may be gathered there, and build up
Zion.  You know Zion is the pure in heart,
and I hope we may have a place there com-
posed of such, where we can live in love and
union. Not one striving in pride and selfish-
ness to gain wealth above another, but all
seeking together to benefit and improve the
state of all. Being owned and blest of the 
Lord, that He may pour out His spirit upon
us, that our sons and our daughters may
prophesy, our young men see visions and
our old men dream dreams, &c.  Does not
the signs of the times indicate that the sec-
ond coming of our Lord is near at hand?
And have not the Saints who are striving to
live their religion faithfully, reason to lift
up their hearts and rejoice, knowing that
their redemption draws near?
	The weather here is pleasant and beauti-
ful.  The sun shines as if it were summer.
There have been no storms this winter, and
the weather is not uncomfortably cool.  I 
have not felt cold and chilly, once this win-
ter, or since I came here, as I have always
done in winter time before.  Our health is
very good, for us, and I enjoy myself.
	Brigham, Jr., Joseph A., and some others


are traveling through the country, holding
meetings.  They held meeting here last eve-
ning, and Brigham gave us an excellent
discourse.
	The Lord is good, and His blessings are
with us, and we rejoice that we are among
those who have been called, and if we can
direct our lives so that we may be among
those who are chosen we shall be thrice
blest.
	For the present farewell.
						S. K. G.

