[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | March | Issue: 19 | Title: MRS. SARAH G. RICHARDS. | Author: Unknown]

MRS. SARAH G. RICHARDS.

	Dear mother, thou who gavest mortal birth
To him—my noblest, best, my next to God—
Accept the tribute of a daughter’s love.
	And while I seek, within my humble muse, 
Some gem that’s suitable for thee to find, 
May God inspire me what and how to write. 
For well I know, that uninspired by Him, 
I conld no word, no line, no sentence trace, 
That would be valued or approved by thee. 
Thou art His child, and thou dost love His laws. 
Do I not know that in the direst hour, 
Thou wast upheld by His almighty arm?
That He hath given thee strength and grace to stand, 
'Mid persecutions, and through trying tests, 
When pow’rs of darkness else had borne thee down !
	Thou art His daughter, owned and well beloved. 
He knows thy faith and thine integrity; 
And all His promises to thee are sure. 
	Am I not bless’d, to be the chosen bride
Of thy dear offspring? Heaven knows I prize
The high position given me to fill. 
Not one of worldly grandeur or of ease—		
What hath a follower of Christ to do
With pomp and pride, and stations whch become
The Mammon worshipers? Let me ne’er fall
So low, so groveling as to seek their train !
My place is loftier, for I am the wife
Of one who fears and honors God, the Lord, 
And seeks to know and to perform His will
In each particular. 
				Mother, I bless
And reverence you, as God’s appointed one, 
Through pain and sorrow, love and faithfulness, 
To bring to earth this chosen “Child of Prayer,”
And give him to God’s service and to me. 
I pray for you, that all your future days
May be more golden than the past have been; 
That we your children, may in some small way, 
Relieve you of the loss you still must bear, 
In having parted with your honored Lord; 
Whom death alone could separate from you, 
Whose love you trusted most implicity, 
And gave him all a woman has to give. 
	How much you miss his tender, patient care, 
We cannot realize, nor fill his place; 
But if our prayers for you are not in vain, 
You will be comforted and hopeful still. 
And in the great Eternity which lies
Almost within the out-stretched finger’s reach,
Where happy recognitions will take place, 
Where love will know no limit, joy no bound, 
Where no misunderstandings will arise, 
A blest reunion waits for him and you; 
A unity more perfect than the first
Will there exist, and make you one indeed. 
	There, too, the fair, sweet girls our Father gave
To bless your children and adorn their lives, 
And then recalled, in infant purity—
Who clung to you, with loving, childish trust, 
And kindled in your breast such hope and pride—
They, too, are there, awaiting our approach
With fond expectation. Oh the change !
Lord teach us how to wait and to prepare !
	Again I crave rich blessings upon thee, 
And may God grant and multiply the same. 

	Let lighter affections go whither they may, 
And passions less holy be lost and decay;
	Let doubts and suspicions false sympathies sever, 
But may our true frieudship endure forever l
	May that love dear mother, between us exist, 
Which can every test and temptation resist;
	With a union like that of Naomi and Ruth, 
Firm as Heaven’s own justice, and fair as its truth. 
								LULA. 
S. L. City, Dec. 26th.


[Column 1]
