Guide Lessons.
LESSON I.
Theology and Testimony. First Week, April, 1916.
WOMEN OF THE BIBLE.
LEAH AND RACHEL.
(Read Genesis, Chapters 28-37.)
Leah and Rachel were sisters, Leah being the elder. They were daughters of Laban who was the brother of Rebecca, Jacob's mother. They were therefore cousins to Jacob. The sympathy of Bible readers, as a rule, goes out to Rachel, the "beautiful and well favoured," instead of to Leah, whose "eyes were tender." We see nothing of these women till the arrival of Jacob, who came to Haran partly to flee from the natural wrath of his brother Esau on the score of the transferred blessing, and partly to obtain for himself a wife from the "seed of Abraham." When Jacob reached the vicinity of Haran three flocks of sheep were waiting at the well to be watered. As Jacob was pressing his enquiries of the shepherds respecting his uncle Laban, who should come up but Rachel with her flock to be watered? "Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice and wept." Removing with his own strong hand the great stone over the mouth of the well, he gave drink to his cousin's sheep, while she ran to her father to tell him of Jacob's arrival. At the expiration of a month's stay with Laban, during which he probably worked for his uncle, Jacob proposed to serve seven years for the hand of Rachel. This was agreed upon. And the time seemed to the lover "but a few days, for the love he had to her," says the picturesque and suggestive narrative. When however "the days were fulfilled" and Jacob was to receive his bride after the prevailing custom, the crafty Laban brought into Jacob's room, not the young woman he had worked for all these years, but the elder sister Leah. Jacob, though, did not discover the deception till it was too late, and the father-in-law made the hypocritical explanation that "it is not so done in our place to give the younger before the firstborn. Fulfill the week of this one, and we will give the other also for the service which thou shalt serve with me yet seven other years." Jacob did this, and in the end he won?or rather earned?Rachel. And he loved her "more than Leah."
It would seem that both women were sensitive on this point of their having been bargained off by the mercenary Laban, for years afterward they asked bitterly, "Are we not counted strangers? for he hath sold us."
It is interesting, in these days when it is unfashionable to have large families, to follow the race of these two women for the favour of their spouse through child-bearing. Leah bore Jacob four children in rapid succession, before Rachel had even one. Then she "left bearing." Rachel "envied her sister." She said to Jacob, "Give me children, or else I die!" Jacob's answer was as petulant as his favourite wife's, "Am I in the stead of God?" So Rachel gave him her maid Bilhah. Bilhah bore two sons to her mistress one after the other. Leah, not to be outdone by her sister, gave Jacob her handmaid Zilpah, who bore two sons. Leah bore two more sons in succession, and Rachel two. This interesting rivalry is stamped in the very names of the fruit of it. Reuben was given this name by Leah "because now my husband will love me;" Naphtali for the reason that Rachel had "mighty wrestlings" with her sister; Issachar means "hire," in evident allusion to the bargain over the mandrakes; and Zebulun signifies "dwell," referring to Leah's hope on the birth of her sixth son that "now my husband will dwell with me."
But even though Rachel had the favour of her husband and the Lord, it is clear from the narrative in the Bible that Leah also had more or less of the favour of the Lord. And not without good and sufficient reasons. Leah was blessed of the Lord from the beginning, in compensation, it would seem, for Jacob's "hatred" of her. "The Lord saw that Leah was hated, and he opened her womb, but Rachel was barren." Then again "from Leah sprang Judah, in whose line the promise to Abraham was to be fulfilled." It would be too much to say with some that "Leah was the one whom God intended for Jacob;" for Joseph, the "fruitful bough by a well," came from Rachel. During her early years of anxiety for children Rachel appears not to have been so mindful of the Lord as of her husband; whereas Leah, on the contrary, perforce gave less attention to her husband, although he, too, appears to have been much in her mind. But afterward Rachel somewhat modified her attitude in the matter, for the Lord "hearkened unto her," which would imply prayer on her part, and gave her a son, Joseph. Moreover, when Jacob was stealing away with his now numerous family and herds and flocks from his wily father-in-law, Rachel stole some idols of her father's which he valued and probably consulted as oracles instead of the Lord. This would appear to signify that her faith still clung to some extent to the old gods instead of to the living God of her husband Jacob.
QUESTIONS.
1. Who were Leah and Rachel?
2. Describe the character of Laban.
3. Tell of the first meeting between Jacob and Rachel.
4. Relate the deception Laban played upon Jacob. Was it justifiable from Laban's point of view? What do you think was his real motive in the matter?
5. Describe the character of Rachel.
6. Describe the character of Leah.
7. Which do you consider the most favoured? Why?
LESSON II.
Work and Business. Second Week in April.
LESSON III.
Genealogy and Art. Third Week in April.
GENEALOGY.
We took the liberty last month of transposing the March and April lesson in order to meet the needs of a number of stakes that desired this done. This month we again suggest that a beginner's class in genealogy taken from our last year's Guide Lessons and from the Genealogical Lesson Book shall be kept up in all the branches of the Society. Those who have these lessons well learned and who are in the advanced grade will be glad of the practical help given this year in our lesson work for the establishment of a firm foundation on which to carry forward their individual and Relief Society work. But there are and always will be beginners who need the first lessons. It has been suggested by the Board that every member of the Society shall spend at least one day in a temple, or arrange for someone to do this for her. This brings up at once the great question of excursions to a temple. Many ask us how this can be done. We give the following suggestions for the chairman of the Genealogical Committee, acting always under the approval of the Relief Society Presidency:
1. Consult the stake Presidency and obtain their full approval.
2. Invite the representative of the Genealogical Society to co-operate with the Relief Society.
3. Ascertain from the railroad agent what arrangements can be made for party rates.
4. Find out through the ward Genealogical Committee about how many persons will go. Note: A successful plan is to invite so many from each ward to go, making them feel that it is a privilege rather than a duty.
5. Write to the president of the temple in your district and ask how many persons your stake may present at the chosen day or week. Note: Always visit your own temple rather than wait for conference time and try to come to the Salt Lake temple. That temple has been so crowded of late that hundreds are turned away each week, and conference time is always a particularly crowded week.
6. Ascertain where your people can get lodgings for a day or so, if you travel long distances, by writing to the stake president or the temple president. Some rent rooms and carry their own provisions.
7. The Genealogical Committee should next discover how many names can be supplied from their own wards and stakes. Oftentimes some poor persons have long lists of names, but cannot afford to go to the temple, while it also happens that some who can afford to go have no names. The committee in this case, can act as an exchange bureau. Note: Unless the chairman of the committee is familiar with the mode of preparing baptismal and other temple sheets, it is better to simply insist on each person bringing a clearly written statement of record of the work he wishes to do and trust to the competent temple recorders to prepare the names and information after reaching the temple. It must always be bourne in mind that the chairman of any or all committees in the Relief Society work under the advice and supervision of the presidency of her Society. There must be order in the Church. A chairman is always in order in devising ways and means for the advancement and development of the work placed under her charge; but this must be done after consultation, and with the direct approval, of the presidency of the Society.
8. Our last suggestions are for those who live too far away from the temples to take an excursion, but who should not be deprived of the privilege and blessing derived from this glorious work. (a) Work in harmony with your stake presidency, and the representative of the Genealogical Society. (b) Send your missionaries to every member of the Society, to collect means and names. (c) After arranging all data and having means enough to cover the cost of substitute work, forward the whole to the president of the temple in your district.
9. Report all official work thus done on your ward records. (a) Always remember your donations and make them proportionate to your circumstances.
Now, sisters, go on with this glorious and necessary work, and let no woman say "there is no temple work for me to do." Here is a way for all to work and be blessed in the doing of it.
QUESTIONS.
1. What arrangements can you suggest to enable your ward to be represented this year at the temple?
2. Who is the representative of the Genealogical Society in your ward and stake?
3. Which is the better plan to call persons to go on an excursion, or to invite them?
4. Write a model letter to the temple president, asking permission to visit the temple in your stake in one month from date.
5. What can you say about preparing sheets for your temple work?
6. What should be the attitude of the chairman of the Genealogical Committee to the president of the Relief Society?
7. If your stake is too far away to go on a temple excursion what can you do as satisfactory substitute work?
8. What members of the Society would you excuse from actual or substituted temple work during the year 1916?
ART AND ARCHITECTURE.
THE INTERDEPENDENCE OF LANDSCAPE AND ARCHITECTURE.
However unsightly a building may appear, or however beautiful the architecture of a home or church or business block may be, its effect may be greatly modified by the landscape. The English ivy, the Boston ivy, a climbing rose, wisteria or honeysuckle vine, or the fruiting grape, may be so successfully placed, that it assists the architecture in creating an atmosphere of sweetness and grace. On the other hand, a badly kept lawn, ugly paths and walks, and sickly, untrimmed trees, poorly placed, can make a poem of architecture look indeed ridiculous.
When designing a house or church building, the architect always gives consideration to the landscape?the surrounding fields, trees, and buildings. It would be poor judgement, indeed, to plan beautiful architecture, without planning for the surroundings as well. A lawn here, a walk there, a rose garden yonder, a tall tree planted to balance the other end of the roof, a mass of flowers, a garden-seat?any one of these may be used to make perfection or to mar the beauty of church or home. The architecture and garden, together, may be all that one might desire, yet there are moments when the landscape unites with them to complete a picture worthy to be preserved forever. Let us not then pass unnoticed the rose-tinted clouds at dawn, the wind-swept cloud, a sunset sky, a double rainbow, that gives this added touch of entrancing loveliness. And while we study beautiful buildings, let us think of beautiful gardens, and a beautiful landscape, to complete the picture.
Let us pay special attention to the surroundings, in connection with the home. Turn to page 144, Devotees and Their Shrines, and notice an illustration in which the lines all lead to the porch roof, and then come down the corner post to our lady in white. The masses of flowers in the foreground, seem to creep close to the path, which leads up to the step, and the fences seem to follow toward the same goal. The nearby stones seem comfortably settled in lines leading to this same spot. Therefore, there is rest, harmony and rhythm, in this picture. Without Mrs. Allen, the picture would not be so successful.
Turn to page 145, to the house where Julina Lambson Smith was born, and note the splotch of green in the upper left-hand corner. It repeats the mass of tree and vine. It gives a touch of strength and vigour to the whole picture, and by filling up a large, empty space, in the sky, makes the design good. Draw a circle, including dear Aunt Melissa, the vine, and the chimney, and the bush at the corner of the house. A second and larger circle will include Uncle Albert at the door, the poplar tree, the dark spot of tree in the sky, the distant trees and shrubs beyond the kitchen, as well as the shrubs below, the holly-hocks, and the border in the foreground. Circles such as these are very pleasing in architecture and landscape gardens, as well as in pictures and statuary.
We have studied this lesson of artistic gardening by Leila Merrill Allen, page 144, Devotees and Their Shrines, with the idea of choice of flowers and flower beds. Now add to this, the thought of the architecture and landscape surroundings of the home.
QUESTIONS.
a. Why do you plan a garden with walks, borders, lawn, trees, shrubs, and flower beds? b. Invent a colour scheme for a garden for spring flowers. c. Invent a colour scheme for fall flowers. d. What vines may be trained over sheds to give beauty? e. What flowers are most suitable for a brilliant border; what for a sweet-scented border? f. Make a plan for a peony garden. When should the peonies be planted? g. Design a rose garden behind the house. h. Plan walks and flower beds with place for dwelling indicated. i. Plan paths, creek, and house in a mountain home (p. 152).
Read: Pages 149-150, "The Dear Old Garden," written by Aunt Em, of her own garden. a. What part of Mrs. Wells' life did the garden fill? b. If she had not known the joy of a garden, that beautiful poem could never have been written. What are its most beautiful lines and thoughts? c. Read "The Cottage," by the architect Dallas?page 151. d. From its perusal, you must glean the facts that this architect designs the architecture of a cottage only in connection with the landscape?never as a house alone. e. What does he mean by fitness and power of association? f. Name the essentials of a mountain camp. Why is not the study of the arrangement of the cabin, alone, sufficient for a successful mountain home?
LESSON IV.
Home Economics. Fourth Week in April.
THE LATTER-DAY SAINT HOME.
THE BUSINESS SIDE OF HOUSEKEEPING.
Gem: Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways and be wise: she provideth her meat in the summer, and gathereth her food in the harvest. Prov. 6:6, 7-8.
Outline:
1. The Question Involved.
2. Woman's Chief Difficulty.
3. An Example.
4. The Family Income. a. Who provides it. b. Who spends it. c. Woman's share in the business of the Home.
5. The Budget.
6. Two Objections Answered.
7. The Experimental Budget. a. How It can be Made Accurate.
8. Information to be Gained from Records.
9. Benefits to the Family from the Budget System of Living.
A question we frequently hear discussed is: "Should the finances of the home be managed in a business-like way?" This is the problem of the day and its final solution will come, not from the professional writer, but through efforts of the housekeeper. The hardest work many women have to do is to take care of their families and keep them happy and comfortable with the amount of money which comes to them for this purpose. Life is a constant struggle to make ends meet. A woman spends for what seems necessary as occasion occurs, but when spring and fall come and clothing for the family must be purchased, or when some expensive piece of equipment must be bought for the home, she never knows whether there will be enough money to pay meat and grocery bills or not. She is always worried about finances and never sure just what she should afford.
One such woman tells how she escaped from this bondage. For the first few years of her housekeeping Mrs. X worried along with ends never meeting, always suffering from the terrible feeling that she was spending too much but not knowing just how or where. They bought a home, feeling it was cheaper to buy than to rent and found that the house was a high-priced luxury, that it was too large and too difficult to care for with their income. But she says, "We found this out after we bought." She employed help; found she could not afford it after she tried it for a time. She bought what she felt was needed for the table and found herself always behind in her bills. She did not know till the end of the month that she was spending too much. After two or three years of this she decided there must be some better way to manage. She tried planning ahead. First, she set down on a piece of paper the big things she knew must be paid?the payments on the house, taxes, insurance, etc. Then she divided what was left among other expenses as best she could. It did not all come out right at first, but after a time she worked out a system which did come out satisfactory and leave her a little over. She says this learning to plan ahead for her spending, and thus being able to live within their income, did more for their happiness than if a relative had left them a fortune. She learned what we must all acknowledge to be true?that the home, while it must be many other things, should also be a business organisation. Husband and wife are partners, and as fast as the children grow old enough to understand, they should be taken into the firm as junior partners. All should understand how much money, or its equivalent, there is for the running of the business of the home and all should be equally interested in seeing that this money, or its equivalent, is wisely used?used so as to bring the greatest good to each and every one of the family.
In most families the man provides the income and the wife does most of the spending. For she spends for the whole family, not just for herself. Thus it comes about that the spending for the home and family is woman's share in the business side of homemaking. Most women are willing to acknowledge that the above fact is true, but all do not agree in what is equally true?that in order to spend wisely and to the best advantage some systematic method of planning ahead must be evolved. The business term used for a written statement of income for the year and the plan of spending that income for the various expenses to be incurred during the year is called a Budget. A budget for the home then is a table of expenses or a written statement of the income and of the divisions of this income into separate amounts, each of which is to be used for some one class of expenditures. That is, after finding out the income and writing that down, the housekeeper decides how much is needed for food, how much for clothing, and how much for each of the several items into which she divides her home expenses. So when we speak of planning some systematic method of handling the household expenses, we really mean that some kind of a budget or table of expenses should be planned, written out, and strictly lived up to.
The first objection the busy woman will make to this suggestion is that she has not time for it. Women who have tried this plan all say it saves far more time than it takes. Another objection is that such a plan can be carried out only in a family on a salary. The experience of many women whose husbands are business men or farmers show that this budget plan of spending can be carried out successfully on an irregular income. The budget for the first year it is tried must be experimental, and may not come out as planned; but if one watches it carefully and sees where it was wrong she can plan more accurately for the next year. An exact account of everything spent and everything which comes in must be kept. It is this careful keeping track of all money or its equivalent coming in which is the essential part of the work when the income is irregular. The accounts and budget for the first year give something more definite on which to base the second year's plans. Every year this plan is continued helps one to plan more accurately for the coming year. If there comes a year when one must, for some reason, live more economically she can survey her budget and see where the saving can best be made. Or as the family income increases so as to give her more to spend, she can systematically distribute and increase.
After using the budget system for a few years the account book will be found to be a storehouse of information to assist in planning for the future. If one wishes to give a party and wishes to know whether it can be afforded or not, she turns easily to the page of a previous party and finds there every item of expense connected therewith, and at the bottom of the page a summary showing each detail of expense and the cost per person of the number entertained. From this can be easily and closely estimated the cost of entertaining a larger or smaller number, or the additional cost of introducing more expensive features in menu or entertainment. Of even more value will be found the record of exact quantities used for a given number, with the marginal note as to any excess or deficiency.
Can the family afford to take a camping trip? From previous years' records will be found the cost of former trips and the amount saved on ordinary running expenses, giving the net cost of this recreation, which is often found to be extremely low.
Can a trip to California be afforded? The writer from previous records estimated a recent trip to California at $151 and provided that amount in her budget. The total cost of the trip was $151.50. A friend, without previous records, planned a similar trip which was to be made on $100. The trip was made. Two hundred dollars was necessary. The family finances were seriously crippled for the year.
Examples could be multiplied indefinitely showing the reliance which can be placed on the records of the past. The records are not necessarily your own. Women of today exchange recipes; women in the future may exchange estimates.
The budget system of managing brings many benefits to the home where it is used. First, it brings a husband and wife closer together. The woman who thus plans and saves even a small amount immediately becomes a partner with her husband in building a home and a fortune. While a woman who unquestioningly spends what is given her is never a member of the firm. In many homes the question of money is a constant source of irritation. This is not the case where the matter is placed on a business foundation. For the basis of budget-making must be co-operation. The woman must understand her husband's income and financial plans. As partners they must handle this income. The hours they spend together planning how he is to meet mortgage, taxes, interest, etc., and how she is to meet the many and varied expenses which come under her management are very happy hours if they bring mutual understanding of one another's problem and mutual appreciation of one another's efforts.
Second, the woman who plans ahead buys to better advantage. If she knows that the little daughter must have cloak, hat, dress, three aprons, underwear, and stockings, in the fall, and that there is just so much money for this child's whole fall expenditures, she plans carefully just about what each thing may cost. She is not tempted to buy some pretty hat she sees which is so expensive that it would leave no money for the underwear or make the cloak too cheap to be durable. She learns too, that the cheapest article is sometimes the most expensive; that is, it may be so cheap it does not wear. It is better to buy a good garment which wears two seasons than a cheap one which fails to go through one. The woman who has her plans all written out can wisely take advantage of sales. She is not tempted to buy useless things just because they are cheap and on sale.
Third, if one buys to better advantage she will inevitably save more. Systematic planning means systematic saving. The savings account is a very important part of the business of homemaking. Any family, except under the direst poverty or the greatest misfortune, can save if they will. It is the habit of saving and not the amount saved which is the important thing to establish. The greatest of fortunes have started with the smallest of savings. The testimony of almost everyone who has saved, as well as of those who have not, is that it is easier to start saving in the beginning on a small or moderate income, than it is to start upon a larger one after habits of spending have been acquired. The person with a thousand dollar income says, "If I had your $2,000 income I would save," when the fact is that the two thousand dollar income referred to is the result of saving and habits of saving formed on an income of less than $1,000. The great majority of people who plan to save in the future never do it. They allow their expenses to increase as rapidly as incomes increase. A twelve hundred dollar salary with $200 saved puts a family much further on the road to ultimate success than a two thousand dollar income with $100 saved.
Fourth, families who run their finances in this business-like way are more contented. If father, mother, and children all understand what the family have to live on and know it is divided justly and carefully among the various expenses each will feel satisfied that the best possible results are being obtained. There will be far less longing and wishing for what they cannot have than where everything is indefinite. The high school girl who knows that all her clothes for the year must be covered by fifty dollars will not go crazy over wanting a forty-dollar cloak, as she might do if she knew that father provided money only for her needs and she had no definite idea of what her share of the family money was. When each child knows that his share is set aside there will be no jealousy among the children, no feeling that one is having more than another, such as exists in some families.
Fifth, out of all this grows a peace of mind which is priceless. One who is living within her income, knows that in the coming year she will again live within it and save something. This gives more happiness than riches. Having once used a budget and kept systematic accounts, no housekeeper will ever think them too much trouble. The time and effort spent on them is repaid to her many times over in the happiness they give to her and her family.
QUESTIONS.
1. What is the question with which this lesson deals?
2. What is the chief difficulty a woman has to meet in buying for her family? When does she find this hardest?
3. Why did Mrs. X spend too much in the first years of her housekeeping? How did she overcome this trouble? Why did this make them so happy? What was the big fact she learned that is of value to every family?
4. Who provides the income of the family? Who spends it? What is woman's share in the business of homemaking?
5. What is a Home Budget?
6. What are two objections many women make? What reply is made to each?
7. What kind of a budget must one begin with? What will help her to make it more exact?
8. What information can one gain from her records? Can you think of other things one might find out from them?
9. What is the first benefit the budget system brings to the home?
10. What is the second benefit?
11. What is the third benefit?
12. What is the fourth benefit?
13. What is the fifth benefit?
14. Can you think of other benefits not given in the lesson?
15. Should the finances of the home be managed on the budget plan?
Will Mrs. Susan Leighton send her full address to this office? Her magazine cannot be forwarded.