[Vol1 | Oct 1914 | Sequence: 07a | Category: Genealogy | Title: Genealogy and Testimony]

GENEALOGY AND TESTIMONY Lesson II.
Ten minutes talk on Current Events.
Relationship "In thy seed shall all the kindred of the earth be blessed." Acts: 3:25.
Following is the prevailing mode of designating relationship: The parents of your father or mother are your grandfather and grandmother.
The parents of your grandfather or grandmother are your great grandfather and great grandmother.
The parents of your great grandfather or great grandmother are your 2nd great grandfather and 2nd great grandmother.
The parents of your 2nd great grandfather or 2nd great grandmother are your 3rd great grand father and 3rd great great grandmother, etc., etc.
The children of your brother or sister are your nephews and nieces.
The children of your nephews or nieces are your grand nephews or grand nieces.
The children of your grand nephews or grand nieces are your great grand nephews or great grand nieces.
The children of your great grand nephews or great grand nieces nieces are your 2nd great grand nephews or 2nd great grand nieces, etc., etc.
Your father's brother or sister is your uncle or aunt.
Your grandfather's brother or sister is your grand uncle or grant aunt.
Your great grandfather's brother or sister is your great grand uncle or great grand aunt.
Your 2nd great grandfather's brother or sister is your 2nd great grand uncle or 2nd great grand aunt.
Your 3rd great grandfather's brother is your 3rd great grand uncle or 3rd great grand aunt, etc., etc.
The children of your uncle or aunt are your (1st) cousins.
The children of your (1st) cousins are your (2nd) cousins.
The children of your (2nd) cousins are you (3rd) cousins.
The children of your (3rd) cousins are your (4th) cousins, etc., etc.
The children of your grand uncle or grand aunt are your 2nd cousins. 4 .
The children of your great grand uncle or great grand aunt are your 3rd cousins.
The children of your 2nd great grand uncle or 2nd great grand aunt are your 4th cousins.
The children of your 3rd great grand uncle or 3rd great grand aunt are your 5th cousins, etc., etc.
Rule:  The relationship is always counted FROM the heir to the dead.
As: John Young (son), b. 6 Mar., 1763, d.
12 Oct., 1839.
That is, Brigham Young, the Heir, is the "son" of John.
It is very important to establish a relationship from the heir in the family to the head individual.
For it is another clue by which to identify the dead.
While it establishes our claim to our friends and relatives.
Dates, names and relationship might be compared to the features of a man's face.
The more clearly we can discern them the better is the chance for identification.
There may be and are thousands of John Youngs, and there were certainly over nineteen John Youngs who fought in the Revolutionary War but only one of them was the father; of Brigham Young; so with all our names and relatives.
In order to avoid confusion and duplication in temple work, it has been decided by the proper authorities that there shall be a limitation in the line which we are at liberty to follow in our ancestry.
The four lines are, the father's line, the mother's line, the mother's mother's line, and the father's mother's line.
If we desire to take up collateral lines pr to follow back our own ancestors' lines beyond this limitation, we may be permitted to do so if we first secure the consent of the President of the Temple in the district in which we reside.
Secondly, we should write to the Deseret News Department of Genealogy notifying any one who may be of that lineage, of our desire to take up the line, and send up a similar notice to the Genealogical Society of Utah.
This will make everything clear and avoid confusion.