WOMAN’S VOICE.
			    ——
	BIG COTTONWOOD, Oct. 10th, 1872.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I highly appreciate your excellent paper,
which must contribute greatly to the inter-
ests of our sex here, as through it we have
the privilege of communicating our views
and aspirations and strengthening each
other in our most holy faith.
	I have been a member of the Relief Society
from its first organization here. I have been
for a long time unable to meet with the
Society, but my heart is with the Sisters
and I love them with that tender affection
which I bore for my own mother and sisters
according to the flesh. I left houses and
lands, father, mother, sisters and brothers
for the Gospel’s sake, and expect here to re-
ceive the reward promised by the Savior to
those who forsake all else for the purpose of
serving Him. I desire to be useful in His
Kingdom, all that I am and have are de-
voted to the blilding up thereof. The sub-
ject of co-operation is one of the deepest in-
terst to us. We have learned already that
union is strength, and as the “downtrodden
women of Utah” have access to every hon-
orable avocation for the purpose of enrich-
ing and enobling themselves, I see no reason
why co-operation should not be introduced
[new column]
and carried on very extensively, among
them. By means of co-operation in our
Societies we are enabled to assist in gather-
ing the poor, and sustaining them in our
midst until they can find ways of sustainiug
themselves. But great improvements can
be made by us if we are willing to be taught
and will be obedient to the requirements of
Heaven. There are many children among
us that are learning mischef for want of
proper employment. Might not schools of
a co-operative nature be instituted in con-
nection with establishments for different 
kinds of labor, silk culture, the manufactur-
ing of silk goods, and other productions, in
which children could be taught, even at a
very early age, to be useful, and still have
their regular hours for study and also for re-
creation? If you fill a measure full of wheat
of a choice kind, there is no room for seeds
of obnoxious weeds therein; and likewise,
if we see that the minds of our children are
stored with precious grains, there will be no
place in them for erroneous doctrins to
enter. I know a sister who has about
twenty acres of land which is enclosed and
as productive as any land in the Territory,
which she would gladly put into any co-
operative company of the kind, to do good;
and another who is a silk dyer, and who is
waiting for an opportunity to set up her
business. These sisters have the spirit of
co-operation. Many such, by waiting, might
accomplish a great deal of good. Father is
rich. The earth is His, the cattle upon a
thousand hills, the gold and the silver are
all His; and He would let us use His means
for the building up of His Kingdom, if we
would trust him and exercise and exhibit
good judgment. I pray for the success of
every wise and laudible undertaking.
				——		  EXCELLETE.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT :
	Why does not some one take it in hand to
have lawful marriage proven a crime and
prohibited? I should think that some of our
loving, influential, and earnest sympathizers
—particularly women who have to listen
day after day to such heartrending and
astonishing questions as “Will polygamy
ever be a crime in Utah !” might see it. If
the Lord ever commanded Adam and Eve
to multiply and replenish the earth, He
also commanded Abraham to take Hager
and by her raise up a son of whom he would
make a great nation. If the latter instance
may be proven a crime, so also may the for-
mer, for both were commanded by the same
great Lawgiver. Who can doubt that the
Alwise and Merciful God had respect unto
His daughter Hager, her prayers and de-
sires, as well as to Abraham and Sarah and
their supplications? She was one of His
children, as they were, and for her benefit
as well as theirs was the commandment
given, that she might fulfill the designs of
God concerning her, and assist in glorifying
His name. True, the Lord suffered her to
be cast out from her husband’s house, but
He did not forsake her. Neither will he
forsake women now, if they will only trust
Him, and acknowledge His dealings among
the children of men. “Will polygamy ever
be a crime In Utah !” is not half so sound a
question as one I heard asked, not long ago,
by a lady who was tired and fretted in her
domestic relations,and who was sane enough
to ask advice of one who was able to give it,
in a kind, sisterly and reasonable way. The
question was: “How long will we have to be
tried in these things?” And the answer
came pleasant and cheery, from one who
had passed the ordeal and triumphed nobly,
“Until they no longer try us.” I have more
to say on this subject, but will intrude no
further upon your space at present. 	G.


