THE SEX.
				      —
	MRS. D. P. Bowers, Philadelphia’s favor-
ite comedienne, has bought a country seat
near Manchester, Mass.
	MRS. Partington does not believe in shak-
ing hands across the bloody sarcasm. Most of
the women agree with her.
	ADELINA Patti has been invited by Mme.
Thiers to give a beneft in Paris to the suf-
ferers by the war, and will do it.
	MRS. Tator, the first woman lawyer on
the Pacific Coast, has been refused admis.
sion to the bar of Santa Cruz, California.
	ROSA Bonheur is said to have expressed
recently a desire to visit the United States,
and, if possible, to do so within the next
twelve months.
	MISS Austine Sneed, “Mrs. Grundy,” of
the “World,” has been engaged to “do”
Washington next winter for a London week-
ly, writing at odd intervals whenever there’s
need.
	THE Princess Salm-Salm having backed
out of the gayeties of this life Into the aus-
terities of a convent, the Queen of Prussia
has sent her a thousand-dollar testament.
	TURKISH ladies are asserting their right
—to be seen. High-born Osman damsels
now dress in Parisian style, wearing veils
of the thinest possible gauze, which soften
without concealing the features.
	COUNTESS Beauchamp has decided talent
as a sculptress. At the Royal Academy her
ladyship is an exhibitor of the figure of her
youngest child. It is said to be excellent
both as a likeness and work of art.
	MADAME de Stael said: “If I were mis-
tress of twenty languages, I would think in
the deep German, converse in the gay
French, write in copious English, deliver
in noble Greek, and make love in the soft
Italian.
	IN Dover, New Hampshire, this Summer,
four young ladies, Adelaide, Jenny, Emma
and Alta Hanson, with the assistance of one
man, their brother, made and gathered sixty
tons of hay. One of them, Miss Emma, her-
self mowed the whole of it, with a two-horse
machine. This promising young farmer is
but seventeen years of age.
	MISS Emily Faithful, who will shortly ar-
rive here to discuss the woman question, is
a lady of wealth and high social position,
and an intimate friend of Queen Victoria.
She devotes her life and money to the ele-
vation of her sex in remunerative employ-
ments.
	IT is well for the girls to know the risk
they run in marrying brakemen. An en-
thusiastic member of the guild In St. Louis
the other night was awakened from a dream
of an Impending mishap by a cry of pain,
and found himself sitting up in bed holding
his wife by the ears, having almost twisted
her head off.


