WOMAN IN ART.
			   ——
	Harriet Hosmer, of Watertown, Mass., is
the most widely known among the women
sculptors at Rome. An ideal head called
“Hesper,” daguerreotypes of which were
taken to Gibson, the English sculptor at
Rome, obtained that artist’s consent for the
lady to become his pupil. Among her art-
studies were copies of the “Venus of Milo,”
the “Cupid of Praxiteles,” and the “Tasso”
of the British Museum. Her first original
attempt was a head of “Daphne,” then of
“Medusa.” Two replicas to the “Daphne”
were subsequently ordered. Her next de-
sign was the shepherd wife whom Paris
deserted for Helen. In 1856 she executed
a statue of “Puck,” three copies of which
are in noble collections in England. The
following year she made a statue of
“Beatrice Cenci Asleep in her Cell,” and the
design of a monument erected in one of the
churches in memory of a beautiful daughter
of Madame Falconet, an English Catholic
lady resident of Rome. “Zenobia,” a colossal
work, architectural in style, with massive
and highly finished drapery, was sent to the
United States for exhibition, and received
the praise of art connoisseurs. In the Paris
Exposition of 1867, she exhibited the
“Sleeping Faun,” and the Legislature of
Missouri gave her a commission to execute
a statue of Thomas H. Benton.
	Miss Emma Stebbins, of New York, like
Miss Hosmer, has long been a resident at
Rome, devoted to the plastic art. She ex-
ecuted a statue of Columbus, which has
found many admirers. One of the most
pleasing and originial specimens of her skill
is a figure of “Joseph,” represented in boy-
hood. A statuesque adornment for a
fountain commissioned for the Central Park
is a representation of the “Angel of the
Waters”—the miracle beside the pool of
Bethesda.
	Miss Foley, of Vermont, has achieved an
enviable reputation by success in relievos.
Among her celebrated works is a bas relief
of Longfellow, a head of William Cullen
Bryant, and one of Charles Sumner.
	Edmonia Lewis, a dusky maiden of negro
and Indian parentage, while in her teens
abandoned herself to sculpture. During the
Union war she exhibited a bust of Colonel
Shaw, the fair-haired hero and martyr to
the cause of her race, at the Soldiers’ Relief
Fair in Boston. Since then she has modeled
the “Freedwoman on First Hearing of her
Liberty” and “Hager in the Wilderness,”
and has excited much interest among the
Roman studios during her residence in
Italy.
	 Mrs. Ames, wife of the eminent portrait
painter, has executed from memory a suc-
cessful portrait of Lincoln, in marble.
	Miss Anne Whitney, of Boston, has been
brought into favorable notice by her original
statues of “Godiva” and “Africa.”
	Mrs. Freedman, wife of the well known
American painter, J. E. Freedman, during
a long residence in Italy achieved great
fame by the delicacy and finished modeling
of several marble portraits and an elaborately
sculptured vase, carved in alto-relievo.—
N. Y. “Star.”


