HOME AFFAIRS.
				    —
	Work on the Temple is progressing finely
this season. It is really gratifying to take an
occasional close survey of the structure and
workmanship of such a splendid edifice.
	Will the Presidents of the Relief Societies
please notice Sister E. R. Snow’s note at the
head of the editorial in number 18, Oct. 10th, of
the Exponent? Some of the Secretaries are
sending us reports in which no reference is
made to it, or the proposed changing of the
name of the Society.
	Hons. George Q. Cannon and Wm. H.
Hooper left this City for Washington, to repre- 
sent Utah in Congress, on Wednesday, 27th ult.
The latter gentleman is the Territorial Dele-
gate for the present session; and the former is
Delegate elect, to take his sea on the 4th of
March next with the assembling of the lately
elected Congress.
	A brief synopsis of the doings of the general
retrenchment meetings conducted in this city,
will hereafter occupy a space in our Relief
Society Reports, for the benefit of ladies resid-
ing in different parts who have not the privilege
of personal attendance. At the same time, all
who have opportunities, should not fail of being
present at these meetings.
	General Thos. L. Kane, whose eloquent
account of the “Expulsion of the Mormons from
Nauvoo” will be familiar to most of our readers,
has been paying our city a visit with his wife
and two children. The heartfelt prayers of
thousands have often been offered up for him,
for the truthful and noble manner in which he
recorded the acts and sufferings of a devoted
people in their struggles to preserve their
religious liberty. He is on his way to Cali-
fornia, seeking health and recuperation, by
direction of his physician. We regret to learn,
though, that Mrs. Kane contracted a severe
cold on their way this far westward.
	Hon. Jas. G. Blair, of Missouri, Member of
Congress, whose eloquent speech in the Hall of
Representatives, last session, in behalf of the
people, and especially of the women, of Utah,
called forth a letter of acknowledgements from
some of our leading ladies, and a courteous
response from the gentleman, paid a brief visit
to this City lately. If men with such broad,
generous, and liberal views were elected by
every constituency throughout the country,
to represent them in Congress, there would be
no fear of Constitutional provisions being tran-
scended to work persecution, through form of
law, against a people because of their honest
faith and worship.


﻿[Written for the Exponent.
LOVE THY NEIGHBOR AS THYSELF.
			  ——
	Most Christians set this commandment
down as being too difficult to be reduced to
practice—too utterly fanatic for serious con-
sideration; but, if properly understood, in
its true meaning and intent, they would
recognize one of the most beautiful and
heavenly lessons to mankind.
	It does not enjoin that we “prefer” our
neighbor’s interests to our own, nor even
that we should not help ourselves “first”; but
that we should do all for our neighbors that
we could desire to have done for us under
corresponding circumstances; that we should
be as willing to see them prosper as to pros-
per ourselves; as glad to have them take
pleasure as to be happy ourselves; as well
pleased to hear them well spoken of as to
receive praise for our own merits. This
will not be hard to do when we look at it in
a clear light.
	It is an admitted fact, that a nation’s
honor reflects great lustre on the character
of its humblest citizen; and as a nation’s
honor is individual excellence often repeated,
can it be denied that the man or woman
whose walk in life is patriotic, brave, high-
minded or in any other way noble, so far,
loves his neighbor as himself? How beauti-
ful the arrangement, that to serve one’s self
conscientiously and faithfully, is the very
best way fo serve the public! By the person
who lives a pure life, are neighbors
served beyond compute; for in the sight of
the young, the example is more valuable
than untold gold. The one who originates
any wise, order-producing regulation in
one’s own business or household, has con-
ferred a blessing on the race. Those who
build dwellings which are models of beauty,
economy or convenience, confer benefits on
the public. Those who introduce improve-
ments on the farm, in the dairy or any other
place, have truly loved their neighbors.
And those who most conscientiously and
truly serve the public, do most adequately
and effectually serve themselves! One who
zealously guards the welfare of a country
or community builds the strongest defense
around one’s individual welfare. One who
makes great improvements in public works,
greatly increases the value aud security of
private property. Those who most truly
consider the happiness of their fellow
creatures are most certain to win it for
themselves.
	What better legacy can be left to the
world, than highly educated and purely
moral descendants? And how is it possible
to secure, without danger of failure, a good
education to one’s own descendants, save by
founding institutions and systems for the
broad diffu sion of knowledge, and in-
cluding one’s own in the general blessing?
If you create a deep and wide-spread interest
in the cause of mental cultivation, you erect
a barrier between the public and many an
evil; which evils, had they been allowed to
gain influence might have created an
opposing current strong enough to counter-
act all your labors in behalf of your own, if
confined to them.
	It is almost impossible to keep your
children untainted while those of your
neighbors are not circumspect; for if you
undertake to keep them entirely apart, the
chances are that you will fail miserably In
your design. If you should succeed, it would
be a doubtful gain; because children are
reasonable beings and must know a cause for
any admonition, and to be told that others
were not fit to associate with them, would
engender vanity and superciliousness, two
[new column]
evils quite as hurtful and more lasting than
childish rudeness, and ill-breeding.
	Now what is to be done? “Love thy
neighbor as thyself!” Bear with thy neigh-
bors’ children. Not exactly by making
them bosom friends, but by pitying their un-
tutored, uncherished condition. Pefrain
from speaking of them with unmitigated
disgust and scorn. When you can, without
injury to any one else, throw into their way
some little pleasure coupled with a kind
word, which will be as a beam of light in
their clouded lives. Rest assured they will
be a little better for it. And this is all you
could ask for yonr own in like circum-
stances.
	If you are anxious to have your dear
ones adhere strictly to the rules of temper-
ance, that their nerves may be unshaken,
their intellects untrammeled and all their
faculties fully and harmoniously developed,
be sure there is no more certain way than to
inaugurate a general movement in that
direction; endeavor to make it “the fashion”
to abstain from every kind of stimulant and
every kind of excess. Organize abstemious
associations—with watchwords of modera-
tion.
	The more means and influence a person
possesses, and the more prominent the
position he or she occupies, the more bind-
ing upon that individual is the duty. “Love
thy neighbor as thyself;” because the sphere
is wide and the power to do good, greater;
and just in accordance with the use made of
opportunities offered, so shall judgment be
awarded. It has been said and truly, that
character is no more the outgrowth of pri-
vate teaching, than of the spirit of the age
in which it is nurtured. How important,
then, to lend every energy toward shaping
the “spirit of the age” in a healthy
direction! How unselfishly should all pa-
triots labor to leave behind them on the
pages of history, bright precedents for future
statesmen to copy! How earnestly should
parents desire to improve the moral tone of
the society into which their children are to
enter.
	As persuasion is more powerful than
coercion, let the sinner be pointed to the
better way, and taught the beauty of holi-
ness, rather than upbraided and denounced
for his or her short comings; for as the
meanest beggar will not part with his rags
on being told they are foul unless he can
obtain something better, so will not the
erring forsake their errors until convinced
of a better way.
							L. L. D.


