HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				—
	THE SIMPLE truth is, that, unless women
have a routine of duty that diverts their
thoughts from themselves, and gives them
something to think of besides dress and the
exhibition of it, they degenerate. The only
cure for this that we know of, is universal
housekeeping. There is no man who can
afford to pay a fair price for board, who can-
not afford to keep house; and housekeeping,
though it be ever so humble, is the most
natural, and the healthiest office to which
woman is ever called.
	The devil always finds work for idle hands
to do, whether the hands belong to men or
women; but American men are not apt to
be idle. They are absorbed in work from
early until late, and leave their idle wives,
cooped up in rooms that cost them no care,
to get rid of the lingering time as they can.
Is it kind to do this, or is it cruel? If it is
kind in its motives, it is cruel in its results.
The whole system of boarding-house and
hotel life is vicious. To live in public, to be
on dress parade every day, to be always part
and parcel of a gossiping multitude, to live
aimlessly year after year, with thoughts
concentrated on one’s person and one’s
selfish delights, to be perpetually without
a routine of healthy duty, is to take the
broadest and briefest road to the degrada-
tion of all that is admirable and loveable
in womanhood. It is to make, by the most
natural process, that gay, gaudy, loud, frivo-
lous, pretentious, vain, intriguing, unsatis-
fied, and unhappy creature which the
Englishman knows as the “New York
woman.”—“Scribner’s Monthly.”
	The above is certainly well adapted to the
position of ladies belonging to fashionable
society. Our country girls and farmers’
wives would be likely to say, that Ameri-
can women are no more apt to be idle than
American men; but such ones see and know
but little of the vanity and worthlessness
which constitute the lives of fashionable
women, and which is being over fed and
continually encouraged by fashionable men,
even while they cry out against it.
	IRON RUST may be removed by salt mixed
with a little lemon-juice.
	REMOVE MILDEW dipping in sour but-
termilk, and laying in the sun.
	A LITTLE oil of cloves poured into a bottle
containing gum mucilage prevents it from
souring. 
	A SOLDER for uniting steel to brass, and 
one which adheres perfectly to both and is
not affected by the unequal dilution of the
two metals, is composed of three parts of
tin, thirty-nine and a half parts of copper,
and ten parts of zinc. 
	PEAS A LA BOURGOISE.-Put your peas, 
which should not be old, into a clean stew-
pan with butter, in the proportion of half
a pound to a quart of peas; add the heart
of a good, large lettuce, a bunch of parsely, 
a few small onions, and a pinch of salt; let
them stew together slowly till done; thicken
before serving with a little butter and flour;
add a little white sugar in powder, and
serve. Some cooks thicken with the yolks
of two eggs instead of flour. 
	A NICE way to bake sour apples is to dig
out the cores, place the apples in a deep tin, 
fill the cavities where the cores come out
with sugar, pour a cup of hot water in the
tin and bake in a quick oven; you will have
a healthful and palatable dish. 
	HOUSEHOLD BREAD, for large families.-
Mix fourteen pounds of flour with six
pounds of mealy potatoes, previously well
mashed; add three teaspoonfuls of salt and 
[new column]
make a dough with water; then work
it well with four teaspoonfuls of yeast, and
after three or four hours bake it.
	TRANSPARENT POMADE.—Take sperma-
ceti, two ounces; castor oil, five ounces;
alcohol, three ounces; oil of bergamot, half a
drachm; oil of Portugal, half a drachm. Melt
together the spermaceti and castor oil, pour
in the alcohol by degrees, stop the heat and
add the oils; stir well to incorporate, and
pour into glass jars. Flavor to suit.


﻿[Written for the Exponent.
WHERE SOCIAL REFORM MUST ORI-
			GINATE.
			    —
	In the present age of the world we enjoy
countless advantages over all that have gone
before us, in the comforts and conveniences
which the grasping, comprehensive mind of
man, with the blessing of God, continually
brings to light, but with the multiplied
wants, and puny strength of the present
day, each new invention to economize time
and toil seems only just sufficient to enable
man to exist until something more can be done
to lighten his grievous burdens. His com-
plicated and numberless bodily ills drag
him down like an incubus, and chain his
mind to the dust when it should surmount
the clouds. Men of intellect and learning
spend their lives concocting drugs with
which to combat the multiplicity of diseases
which prey upon humanity, and humanity
blindly, recklessly, swallows all, patent pills,
quack nostrums, and, above all, ardent
spirits in the form of bitters and tonics,
which last still further inflame those gross
animal passions which, all admit, are, in
their unchecked career the root of nine-
tenths of these debilities. It is acknow-
ledged that excessive indulgence has robbed
man of his primitive vigor and given rise to
a long train of frightful diseases which will
continue to afflict the race until means can
be used to end them. The sooner this is
done the better, and the trouble must be
met boldly.
	It is useless to cry out against social de-
pravity and deplore its evil work and
never lift a weapon against it. It is
equally useless to fight against remote
conseqlittlees and have the ruling cause
untouched. Why cannot men learn the folly
of battling against effects, while nurturing
aud fostering causes? Why bewail the
work of the destroyer in desolated homes
and the blighted promises of many a fair
young life, and call on the strong arm of
vengeance on the head of the evil doer; and
still purge not the hidden springs of iniquity,
and ignore the fact that those same mourn-
ing households have contributed, and still
contribute their mite, to the deep fountain
of that deadly poison which creeps insidiously
through society, the highest and the lowest,
over on the alert for its prey, here and there
fastening its fangs upon the most promising
in the land, never relaxing its hold until it
has devoured, not the body only, but the
usefulness, the peace, the soul of its victims?
And why be slaves to physic, seeking by its
unaided strength to overcome disease of
body and mind, while moral or rather im-
moral causes are daily originating new
phases of suffering? The source of disease
being sin, it must receive mental and moral
treatment. It is not enough that the vigi-
lant eye of the law is ever watchful to detect,
and its strong right hand ever uplifted
to punish crime; these measures deal only
with effects, cropping here and there a twig
from the great tree of immorality. But its
weapons are too short to reach the great,
strong trunk which is no more disturbed by
[new column]
the clippings than a strong oak by the
pruning knife. No! the strength of social
crime lies far beyond the verge of legal
jurisdiction, and at its safe distance, mocks
its futile endeavors. Then where shall we
look for its antidote, and whence is our
deliverance to come? It is plain that the
fountain of sin must be cleansed before the
stream will run clear. But where shall we
look for this fountain? Social evil does not
derive its strength and perpetuity from those
miserable libels on “the Image of God” who
unblushingly avow their infamy, and are
shunned as lepers by respectable citizens,
for they, poor, miserable, comfortless
wretches—as we know them—create far less
evil in the world than is laid to their charge.
It is where they cannot enter; where peace-
ful, law-abiding citizens dwell, that the
seeds of crime are planted and nourished
until they “can be no longer hidden,” and
then spewed forth to go abroad fulfilling
their dreadful mission. Look to it, you
fathers who “live above the law,” and
piously bewail the depravity of the world,
that you are not secretly giving aid and
sustenance to that very cause by giving full
license to those appetites which cannot be
said to degrade man “to the level of brutes,”
since brutes, without the aid of Reason and
Religion, do strictly observe the laws of
Nature. Oh, you honest citizens! do you
degrade yourselves “below” the brutes by
disregarding Nature’s laws in your own
homes, and seeking only your own sensual
gratification, persistently closing your eyes
to the fact that thus you perpetuate and foster
a low tone of morals, and send abroad into
the world, exaggerated types of your own
depravity, to carry their pestilential presence
and shameful deeds everywhere? Do you
honestly acknowledge to your accusing con-
sciences when your sons give themselves
up to evil excesses that your own ways of
life have been their ruin? Do you ever repent
in secret anguish that you did not exercise
your divine right of sovereignty over your
own inferior passions and lead instead of
following them, exercising them only with
a fixed and holy purpose, as a sower scatters
grain in the spring? This is where social
reform must originate. When you do this,
oh, fathers and mothers, and forsake the use
of stimulants, you shall have the proud
assurance that your sons and daughters will
never be unresisting victims to those detest-
able passions which are the prolific source
Of bodily suffering and mental anguish in
this sin-weltering world. This course will
restore man’s primitive vigor, and class as
entire gain instead of mere necessities, the
wonderful inventions of genius. This will
strike the heart of social evil and give law
no subjects on which to waste its idle
strength, and rob the countless swarms of
quacks of their victims whose own sins
place them helpless in their power. And
fail not to remember, oh, parents! that as
you are responsible for the existence of
deathless beings, so you are responsible for
their dispositions; and that through them,
your secret thoughts are brought to light;
and do not dare ignore your responsibility,
nor use irreverently your fearful, your
wonderful powers.			L. L.	D.


There are two things in this life for
which people are never prepared, and they
are twins.
	A prosperous merchant has for his motto:
“Early to bed, and early to rise; never get
tight and advertise.”
	For the Centennial of American inde-
pendance, Philadelphia will erect a building
that will cover fifty acres of ground.


