		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	TURKISH LADIES are discarding thick
veils. The world moves!
	BRAVE WOMEN of the period—Those who
dare to dress comfortably.
	 NOVEMBER 5TH is the day on which the
Presidential election will be held.
	FALLEN GREATNESS—The “Cardiff Giant"
bought to be set up by an Indiana farmer as
a gatepost.
	DACOTAH HAS had an earthquake.  Are
they traveling east from California without
giving Utah a call? They can be spared
here.
	MRS. FAIR was acquitted on her second
trial in San Francisco, and the result called
forth an abundance of wrathy newspaper
criticisms.
	NO RACE nor clime can claim lengthened
years as a special heritage. A woman of color
died in Philadelphia a few days ago aged
a hundred and five years.
	GEORGE FRANCIS TRAIN has again gone
to Europe, but will return this month. He
has still inscribed on his banner “N. P. A.”
—Next President of America — Next?
When?
	PRUSSIA MAINTAINS Protestantism by re-
fusing to permit Mormon Elders to preach
in its dominions, and by expelling Jesuits.
Prussian Protestantism must be weak-kneed
and delicate to be so afraid of contact.
	CINCINNATI HAD an inaugural attempt at
a war of races, on the night of the 7th inst.,
when an Irish procession and a colored mob
came into collision. A general war of races
would be more terrible than a war of sec-
tions, of countries, or even of kindreds.
	THE MICHIGAN University has received
nineteen young ladies in the “freshman”
class, and Michigan University is honored
in so doing. The silly prejudices against
according woman the educational rights en-
joyed by men are disappearing
	PENNSYLVANIA, OHIO and Nebraska held
elections on the 8th inst., and gave majori-
ties for the Republican candidates. Indiana,
on the same day, gave a majority for the
Democratic candidate. The result is not
favorable to Mr. Greeley’s election in No-
vember
	WORD COMES from the Pacific Coast that
a woman suffrage bill has been introduced
into the Oregon legislature. Oregon may be
just enough to have the bill passed and be-
come law,and teach Massachsetts that justice,
truth and light are to come from the
west to the east, reversing the old order of
things.
	A BEQUEST of $350,000 has been made by
Miss Sophia Smith, of Massachusetts, to en-
dow a new college for women at Northamp-
ton in that State, where young women may
have means and models of instruction equal
to those now enjoyed by young men. Telling
the simple fact is ample eulogy on Miss
Smith, all honor to her!
	SCOTT'S LINES commencing “Love rules
the camp, the court the grove” might be
altered in this mercenary age to “Mammon”
exercising the ruling power. It is now said
Pere Hyacinth made $75,000 by his mar-
riage. Of course money was no induce-
ment, but it was convenient to find it a
portion of the matrimonial bargain.
	PRINCE NAPOLEON endeavored to take
up his residence in Paris last week, his
wife, the Princess Clothilde, accompanying
him. But the government of Thiers per-
emptorily ordered them to leave,
and the princely pair had to travel.
The name of Napoleon is not as popular in
France as it was before the surrender at
Sedan.
	WASHINGTON D. C., had the strange
sight a few days ago of six persons being ar-
raigned in one of its courts, charged with
murder; Washington is moral, and temper-
ate, and virtuous, and free from crime; and
that is the reason probably why it becomes
so potently stirred up against Utah occasion-
ally. Were these six alleged murderers an
accident?
	MORE TROUBLE in Spain. This time it is
a revolt of the troops at the town of Ferrol,
a strongly fortified sea-port with some 17,-
000 inhabitants, and some of the citizens
have joined the insurrectionists. King
Amadeus is verifying the proverb:	“Un-
easy lies the head that wears a crown;” and
the prospects of a peaceful reign over the
revolution-loving Spaniards are not very
bright for him.
	WHEN THE FALL and Winter fashions be-
come fairly matured they promise to pre-
sent as much hideousness as any late ones
have manifested; and people will admire
themselves imitating a style of hair-dressing
that has been fashionable in central Africa
for generations; while clothing will be
modeled for every purpose but the comfort
and convenience of the wearer.
	A PROPOSITION to license and “ticket”
the inmates of houses of ill-repute in New
York is being discussed, and the “Star” of
that city sensibly calls for the same rules be-
ing applied to the male visitors at the
places. It adds: “This theory that the men
have ‘rights’ which women are not to share
in that direction, is not only unchristian but
indecent.” A sentiment with which every
right-minded person will agree.
	A HOUSE fell in Louisville, Kentucky,
the other day, killing a family inside, and
warrants were promptly issued against the
architect, the builder, and the foreman en-
gaged in the erection of it, charging them
with the murder of the persons killed. If
men were more generally held responsible
for the fatal results of their carelessness or
wilful neglect to take necessary precautions
where human life is involved, there would
be fewer accidents by railroads, on steam-
ships, by explosions, and other ways by
which life is recklessly slaughtered. It is
time this much-needed reformation was be-
gun, and the action of the Louisville City
courts is a healthy sign.
	THE ANNIVERSARY of the birth day of
Father Matthews, the once famous Irish
temperance preacher, was widely celebrated
by the temperance men of the United States,
on Thursday last, the 10th inst. One good
thing Father Matthews did for Ireland. Be-
fore he traveled through the country stir-
ring up her children to enthusiasm by his
fervid eloquence, and administering the
pledge of total abstinence to thousands, It
was not considered a disgrace to be intoxi-
cated, only so far as it showed a limited ca-
pacity to drink fiery whisky. But since his
day, wide-spread as intemperance still is, it
is viewed as disgraceful and degrading to
be seen drunk. When some reformer can
accomplish as much for these United States,
he will be worthy of a statue of California
gold, on a pedestal of Nevada and Utah
silver, and gemmed with Alaska and Arizo-
na diamonds.
	“FATHERLESS, MOTHERLESS, no friends,
no home!” were words contained in a letter
which helped to show the cause of a suicide,
lately committed in London by an unfortu-
nate girl about twenty years of age, who
preferred death by her own agency, rather
than to live and follow the paths of vice.
She asked forgiveness of all who might
hear of her, for the crime she was about to
commit. It is easier to forgive such as her,
than the enlightened Christian age whose
follies drive them to deeds of desperation.
While President Brigham Young sets an ex-
ample before the people of the Church of
Jesus Christ, and the whole world, by feed-
ing, clothing, sheltering and schooling a
great many young people who would other-
wise be homeless and friendless; giving
them places with his own children, becom-
ing indeed a father to the fatherless; the
world derides him and his ways, of which
it understands nothing, and would gladly
do with its benefactor to-day, as the Jews
with its Redeemer less than nineteen centu-
ries ago. Yet innocence, driven to desper-
ation, rushes headlong into eternity, and
the Christian age hardly gives a glance to
the miserable unfortunate, but hurries on
preparing others for the same horrid future.
	THE "MISSOURI REPUBLICAN,” under
the heading “The Oppressed women of
Utah,” has the following sensible remarks,
which are presented for general considera-
tion to pusedo philanthropists, silly senti-
mentalists, and anti-Mormon lecturers:
“We have heard a good deal about the op-
pressed and degraded women of Utah, and
the unclean and tyrannical vassalage which
the Mormon social system imposes upon the
female sex. This string has been tuned
and played upon until it appears to have
snapped. It seems now that the women are
almost every body in Utah. They have
more power and more rights than they have
anywhere else on this green earth, and the
boasted lord of creation is entirely a second-
ary personage in the land of saints. This
may look like a strange condition for Utah,
of all the world, but it is true. That Terri-
tory and its social system seems to have
been the lock and key by which women
have at last entered into the wider, nobler
sphere for which they have prayed and
worked. An incident which calls up the
privileges which the women of Utah enjoy,
lately occurred in Salt Lake City. Miss
Phoebe Couzens, of St. Louis, and Miss
Georgie Snow, daughter of the Attorney-
General of the Territory, were admitted to
the bar in the District Court, and the cere-
monies were imposing. The brace of pretty
girls besieged the august Court of Chief
Justice McKean, and the Court capitulated.”


