								JULIA.


﻿Jumping from trains when in motion has
been made a penal offence in England.
	A remarkable old English gentleman
is missing, and is so particularly described
in an advertisement in the London Times
that, if he be found, the finders will be at
no loss to recognize him. He wears “a
brown wig and a green shade over one eye.”
He has no hair on his face, but he carries a
deep red scar over his left eyebrow, has
“large yellow teeth dressed in black with a
grey overcoat.” Now a man with a wig
over his eye and an overcoat on his teeth
ought to be identified with a positive assur-
ance wherever he may turn up, especially if
he spends freely and gives checks on Lon-
don banks, as this old-gentleman-errant is
said to do.—New York Tribune.

	An English journal announces an im-
provement in railway signalling, put into
operation at Birmingham, which is on the
London and Northwestern Railroad. It says
that “by a new arrangement of signalling
there will be no more screeching from en-
gines within the station, except for shunt-
ing or pilot engines. From all the departure
platforms telegraph wires have been laid
down communicating with the pointsmen’s
signal boxes at each end of the station.
When a train is ready to start the superin-
tendent unlocks the signalling-box, and sig-
nals in what direction the train is going.
On receiving the signal that a train is ready
to start, the pointsman shows the signal
“line clear,” and the driver starts his train
without any preparatory whistling.”
	An Indiana editor lays down his shears
for a few minutes to write a double-leaded
editorial, in which he plaintively remarks:
“We are the recipient of half a peck of nice
onions, two watermelons and a bottle of
ginger-beer from one of our subscribers.
The gifts were like the shadow of a rock in
a weary land. We are glad some one re-
membered us in the midst of our labors and
cares, and evinced that remembrance in so
delicate a manner. We dote on onions and
love melons dearly; and so long as the fra-
grance of the former and the gripes of the
latter linger about us, we shall hold the kind
donor in affectionate remembrance. Of gin-
ger-beer we have never been able to speak
enthusiastically, but may say that our chil-
dren enjoyed it greatly; while the empty
bottle added not a little to the effective
force of our office armory.”


