HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
		
	One good strong brain at the helm of the
family craft is worth several pairs of stout
hands. As everything aboard ship depends
upon the skill with which the rudder hands
are made to do their duty, so everything in
the household depends on the outlining of
the year’s, the week’s, or the day’s work.
If the mistress leaves matters to drift as it
happens, or trusts the management of her
affairs to unskilled or unfaithful hands, she
will soon find herself in the midst of
inextricable confusion. We cannot but
think that more than half the blame mis-
tresses lay upon their servants for work ill
done or undone belongs at their own doors.
The person who voluntarily takes and holds
a subordinate position virtually acknowl-
edges her inability to setup for herself; she
confesses by so doing that she needs a
mistress, and that her duties may be pre-
scribed by another. When fully instructed
in the routine she is to follow, she may be
left to herself, in a measure; but rare is that
servant who does not need at times the
sympathy, the thoughtfulness, the aid of
her mistress in accomplishing the work
expected of her. Our great merchants, our
leading bankers, our prominent railroad
men do not trust the management of their
business to subordinates. They visit every
important post in person, and not by proxy,
and know by ocular inspection that every-
thing is right. If one needs to engineer her
way in household matters when she can
hire muscle to carry out her plans, much
more is brain-work necessary when she has
nothing but her own hands to depend upon.
It is worth while in such a case to study out
the best plan for the week’s campaign, to
decide upon what first shall be done and
what next, to arrange the points of attack
in the most skillful and felicitous manner,
and with reference to the time and the
power that may be devoted to accomplish
the desired ends. By this means the house-
keeper will know exactly what she is doing,
how her work progresses, and be able to
take advantage of whatever may turn up
favorable to her wishes. Most of us can call
to mind women of feeble health who accom-
plish marvels in the way of work, simply by
their skill in planning. In this men may help
their wives very much if they will. The
unbiased judgment of a friend is often of the
greatest value to one fretted and wearied by
complications and perplexities in his affairs.
The man coming in from the great world
into the little world of domestic life can
often tell at a glance at what point friction
is greatest, exactly where the fulcrum shall
be placed so that with the lever in hand the
weight to be moved shall be lifted. Where
the wife is wanting in the ability to map
out her line of operations, and the husband
possesses it, he should use this talent for
the best good of both parties. It matters
not which half of the dual unit stands at the
wheel, if the course of the ship is ever
toward the desired haven, and away from
rocks and shoals.—“New York Tribune.”
	White Cake.—One cup of butter, two of
sugar, one of milk, four and a half of flour,
four eggs, one and a half teaspoonful of
cream of tartar, half do. of soda.
	Soft Gingerbread.—One cup of me-
lasses, one of sour cream, two eggs, salt,
ginger, one teaspoonful of soda; make it
into a thick batter with flour.
	Potatoes.—Always add salt to the water
while potatoes are boiling; boil moderately,
not violently, and let them be only well
covered with water.


