REFLECTIONS.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	I have enjoyed reading your valuable
paper and would prefer to read rather than
to write. But I sometimes have reflections
which prove profitable to myself and may
interest others. I naturally love children
and always enjoy Sabbath Schools, when my
health will admit of my attendance. I left
home in May for a visit to one of the adja-
cent settlements. The change of air seemed
beneficial to my health, and I was invited
to spend the Summer, and when I found I
could make myself useful by instructing
children I gladly accepted the invitation. I
visited home too often to take a class in
Sabbath School, but went, however, as a
visitor; and on one occasion they opened the
School by singing “We are the true born
sons of Zion.” The children sang it well,
which caused my heart to rejoice in the
Spirit of the work, anticipating their future
capabilities if they continue to apply their
hearts unto wisdom, that is to love and fear
God; for we are told that “The fear of the
Lord is the beginning of wisdom.” Never
before did I feel the full weight of the re-
sponsibilities of a Sabbath School teacher.
The thought arose in my mind, would it be
of any value to be one of the true born child-
ren of Zion if not awake to one’s duty?
Were not the Jews the chosen people of
God? And yet how few acknowledged Jesus
Christ to be the Son of God! Were not the
Nephites blessed when humble and faithful
and filled with the Spirit of the Lord? But
look at the contrast when the cares of the
world engrossed their attention and caused
them to relax their hold of divine intelli-
gence from time to time, until the Lord
withdrew His Spirit and gave it to the
Lamanites, so that Samuel the Lamanite
foretold the coming of the Savior and also
concerning His death. The Book of Mormon
cites us to a parable of a vineyard, the fruit
of which became bitter and unfit for use, so
that it was necessary to hew it down, that
better might be placed in its stead. Is it
well, then, for us to spend our time in look-
ing at the faults of others except that we
may know how to shun evil and cleave unto
that which is good? Better would it
be for us to measure ourselves by the pattern
our Savior left us, that we may know how
near we come to it. This would teach us
humility and save ns from becoming bitter
in our minds, and prove a good example be-
fore our children who are in danger of being
embittered also. For the Apostle says, “If
God spare not the natural branches take
heed least He spare not thee.”
	I noticed also in the lesson, Math. 8th
chap. 11 and 12 verses, that it reads, "And
I say unto you, that many shall come from
the East and the West and sit down with
Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the Kingdom
of Heaven; but the children of the Kingdom
shall be cast out into outer darkness; there
shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.”
This is a mournful picture to look at; but is
it not profitable to see things as they are,
that we may love our children with the
right kind of love and not indulge them to
their own distruction? In all my acquaint-
ance with children I have never known one
whose attention could not be gained by read-
ing or rehearsing Bible stories; especially
when I felt to enjoy the Spirit of the Gospel
myself; and this we need in teaching the
young at home,as much as any missionary who
is sent abroad to preach the Gospel of Jesus
Christ; and with it we benefit ourselves as
well as those we instruct; and when their
attention is directed to the teachings of the
Savior, they are most easily governed. I
have sometimes said to children, “I am
sorry you did that, you should not do so,”
when they sorrowed as much as I did for
the wrong action, and this seemed to be all
the chastisement necessary.
							M. E. K.


A GOOD word is an easy obligation; not to
speak ill, requires only our silence, which
costs us nothing.	
	YOUNG persons should, above all things,
beware of beginnings, and by no means par-
ley with temptations.
	A WISE man is humble, because he thinks
of what he has yet to learn instead of
what he already knows.
	IT is one thing to wish to have truth on
our side, and another to wish to be on the
side of truth.—Wheately.
	WIT loses its respect with the good when
seen in company with malice; and to smile
at the jest which plants a thorn in another’s
breast is to become a principal in the mis-
chief.
	THERE is nothing more pitiable in the
world than an irresolute man, oscillating be-
tween two feelings, who would willingly
unite the two, and who does not perceive
that nothing can unite them.


NOTHING sets so wide a mark between a
vulgar and noble soul, as the respect and
reverential love of woman. A man who is
always sneering at women is generally a
coarse profligate, or a coarser bigot.
	LORD Bacon says, “But little do men per-
ceive what solitude is and how far it ex-
tendeth; for a crowd is not company, and
faces are but a gallery of pictures, and talk
but a tinkling cymbal, where there is no
love.”
	CARLYLE, after empting his quiver of
more satirical arrows than any brother es-
sayist, coolly says: “Sarcasm I now see to
be, in general, the language of the devil; for
which reason I have long since as good as
renounced it.”


