FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	THREE-FOURTHS of the pleasures of a holi-
day lie in the planning of it.
	HENRY W. LONGFELLOW pays a tax of
$2,666, and James Russell Lowell $753.
	DUVALL county, Fla., with a population
of less than 12,000, has, during the last
twenty-four months, had 52 homicides and
suicidal deaths, and 32 fatal accidents. Only
one murderer has been hung.
	REV. DeWitt Talmadge’s Tabernacle in
Brooklyn started three years ago with 19
members. To the 19 have been added 500
by letter or profession, and the congrega-
tion has given for all objects $98,800.
	JUSTICE is impartial. P. D. Banks, an
Iowa man, has no money to speak of and
goes to the penitentiary for ten years for
robbing the mails. Simon Smith, of the
same State, equally guilty, and a counter-
feiter besides, pays $2,400 and escapes.
	A NIAGARA Falls correspondent has spent
some time in classifying the arrivals for last
season, which numbered 41,975; New York
heads the list with 14,978; Illinois shows 1,-
490; the British Provinces, 1,565; Europe,
1,100; the Orient, 105, and Africa, 4.
	THE collar of the Order of the Golden
Fleece, which was sent by King Amadeus
of Spain to the Comte de Flanders, is the
identical collar which was worn by Christo-
pher Columbus, and with which he was in-
vested with the Order by Ferdinand and
Isabella, in honor of the discovery of America.
	THE eleven Territories, as accurately as
can at present be ascertained, contain over
one billion and a quarter acres, exceeding
by nearly two hundred thousand square
miles the aggregate territory of all the
present admitted States of the Union. The
Territory of Alaska, containing 369,529,600
acres, is included in the number stated.
	GARDEN Islahd is the name of a little is-
land in Lake Ontario, near the city of King-
ston. The population is about 1,000. Twenty
years ago a law was passed that no liquor
should on any pretense be brought on the
island. There is not a pauper nor a police-
man among the inhabitants, and not a case
has come before the magistrate for fifteen
years.
	A DETROIT man recently forswore tobac-
co. He eats a few things to get through
each day. The following is a list of a few
little things required the first day:	Six
oranges, fourteen apples, ten cents worth of
peanuts, two sticks of spruce gum, three
large sticks of candy, a pint of roasted chest-
nuts, one cake of maple sugar, three cents
worth of liquorice root, and half an ounce of
camomile blows.
	A COLORED member of the Texas Legis-
lature was recently seen with a roll of green-
backs in his hand, over which he chuckled
so loudly as to attract the attention of a by-
stander, who said to him: “What are you
laughing at, Jim?” Jim replied, “You see
the money?” “Yes.” “Well, boss, I just
got that for my vote; I’se been bought four
or five times in my life, and dis is de fust
time I ever got the cash myself.”
	A WONDERFUL cave has been discovered
in Center county, Pennsylvania, said to be
equal, if not superior, to the Mammoth
Cave, of Kentucky. When once inside, the
most magnificent and delightfully beautiful
sights are presented to the gaze. The rooms
are numerous and large, but have not yet
been fully explored. Directly under the
cave is another, supposed, to be much larger
and richer in its queer and Indian-like
specimens.


