DIVERSIONS. 
				—
	MANY of the rich planters of Jamaica live
on coffee grounds.
	“DAUGHTERCULTURAL shows” is the
latest name for a family party.
	IF Adam is accountable for “consequen-
tial damages,” he will have a rough time of
it. 
	THE Jewish “Messenger” wishes Stanley
to try his skill on the ten lost tribes of
Israel. 
	BILLINGS says, “There ain’t ennything
that will kompletely kure lazyness, but i
have known a second wife to hurry it sum.”
	“DO YOU think,” asked Mrs. Pepper,
“that a little temper is a bad thing in a
woman?”
	“Certainly not, ma’am,” replied the gal-
lant phiolsopher; “it is a good thing, and she
ought never to lose it.”
	A MUSIC dealer has in his window a sen-
timental song thus marked: “Thou hast
loved me and left me, for twenty-five
cents.”
	A little girl was tenderly nursing her
sick doll the other day, and on her mother
asking what ailed it, she replied, “It’s got
the ‘Alabama claims very bad.”
	The Earl of Shaftesbury, noted for his or-
thodoxy, said lately that if the Pope had a
wife, she would not allow him for an hour to
remain in the belief that he was infallable.
	An old maid suggests that when men
break their hearts, it is all the same as
when a lobster breaks one of his claws—an-
other sprouts immediately, and grows in its
place.
	An Illinois lover closed a letter to his lady
sentimentally as follows; “My best loved
one, I chawed the postage stamp on your
last letter all to thunder, because I knew
you licked it on.”
	A clergyman addressed his female audit-
ors as follows: “Be not proud that our Lord
paid your sex the distinguished honor of ap-
pearing first to a female after resurrection,
for it was only that the glad tidings might
spread the sooner.”
	THE characteristic of the umbrella is its
power of changing shapes. You may leave
a bran new silk with an ivory and rosewood
handle at any public gathering, and within
three hours it will transform itself into light
blue or faded brown cotton, somewhat less
in size than a circus tent, with a handle like
a telegraph pole and five fractured ribs.


