THE SEX.
			      —
	One of Fanny Fern's daughters lives at
St. Paul.
	Three English ladies recently achieved
the ascent of Mont Blanc, and had a trium-
phant recption on their return.
	Laura Sainz, Marchioness of Patayama,
late lady-in-waiting to Queen Isabella, is
making a fortune on the lyric stage in Italy.
	For domestic reasons, Kate Fields will be
unable to lecture in the West at all this sea-
son, and will be obliged to curtail the
number of her engagements in the East.
	“I'm not used to begging,” said a little
girl to a lady of whom she had asked alms,
“ ’cause only two weeks ago my father was
a merchant!”
	"Why, child, how could you be reduced
to poverty so soon?”
	“My father took a bad two-dollar bill at
his peanut-stand, and it ruined him,” sob-
bed the child.
	When a child, Pauline Lucea manifested
such a decided taste for drawing as well as
for music, that for a while her mother was
disposed to let the former inclination prevail.
She took daily lessons in drawing, but was
also allowed to go on with her vocal studies.
She made wonderful progress in the use of
her pencil, yet such was her proficiency in
singing that very soon there was no question
that her true vocation was music.
	“It is a fact,” says Mr. Scudamore, “that
a telegraph clerk in London, who was
engaged on a wire to Berlin, formed an
acquaintance with, and an attachment to a
female clerk who worked on the same wire
in Berlin, that he made a proposal to her
and that she accepted him without having
seen him. They were married, and the
marriage resulting from their electric affini-
ties is supposed to have turned out as well
as those in which the senses are apparently
concerned.”
	There was a social meeting, of five elderly
ladies, sisters, at Concord, at the residence
of R. N. Rice, son of one of them, the
“youngest” of the five being a “greatgrand-
mother,” and their combined ages reaching
three hundred and ninety years, averaging
about eighty years. By arrangement, they
were got together from different parts of
the State, and their re-union under one roof
was as happy an event as it was unexpected
to all of them, they not having been together
for about twenty years.
	Mrs. Florida White, well known in the
fashionable world forty years ago, was one of
the most beautiful, accomplished, elegant
and attractive women of her day. She was
the daughter of Gen. Adair, of Kentucky,
and her first husband was Joseph M. White,
the second delegate sent to Congress from
the Territory of Florida. Highly educated,
full of genius, her society was courted by
the most elevated circles in Washington,
New Orleans, New York and Boston. She
was a brilliant conversationalist, ready and 
effective at repartee, and a sincere, warm-
hearted gentlewoman of the most gracious
and generous impulses. On one of her visits
to Rome she was presented to the Pope.
	“Kneel, my daughter,” said he, as she
stood erect in her imperial grace before
him. All kneel to me except the daughters
of sovereigns.”
	“I am a princess in my own right, Your
Holiness,” she replied.
	“How can that be, when you are an
American born?” “In my country the people
are sovereign, and I am a daughter of the 
people.”
	The Pope smiled a gracious assent, rejoin- 
ing, “Then receive an old man’s blessing.”


