EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE EASIEST thing In the world to make
—a mistake.
	JUDGE CURTIS got eight thousand dollars
for defending Mrs. Fair, and securing her
acquittal. Crittenden only got a bullet.
	ON TUESDAY next, the 5th inst., the Uni-
ted States will elect the President for the
four years commencing March 4th, 1873.
	ONE'S TEETH chatters to think that while
Utah has been having a delightful Indian
Summer the crowning enjoyment of Michi-
ganders was sleigh-riding.
	STANLEY-AFRICANUS, the discoverer of
Livingstone, will lecture on his African ex-
perience, and may “discover” Salt Lake on
his way to the Pacific Coast.
	AGASSIZ "FISHED" in the Sacramento
river, and by exploding torpedoes caught
about a thousand. But it was science that
authorized the finny butchery.
	THE GREAT question of the coming Presi-
dential electian still remains undecided; and
radicals of the two contending parties con-
tinue slashing at each other with increas-
ing violence.
	“POMEROY'S DEMOCRAT” says Brigham
Young’s smallest child has forty-nine moth-
ers. If he appreciates the worth of one
mother as he should do, he must consider
that child blessed indeed.
	PAYMENT OF workmen on Mondays, in-
stead of Saturdays, is being agitated in the
east. A sensible movement, and one that
may prevent much intemperance, if it does
no further good, should it prevail.
	ONE OF the most shocking and terrible in-
cidents we find recorded in late news items,
is that of a little boy, in Lexington, only
seven years of age, purposely and deliber-
ately shooting and killing a little girl five
years of age.
	GREELEY SAYS “strategy in politics is the
tribute which craft pays to strength: The
wolf-skin proving too short, the fox’s tail is
pressed into service to piece it out.” That’s
quoting Bulwer’s “Richelieu” with a pres-
ant application.
	A GENTLEMAN in Paris had his false
teeth seized upon for debt; he claimed that
they were sacred, as a part of his person,
and that the officer had no right to touch
them, but the officer contended that he had.
Are teeth personal property? It is a tooth-
some query.
	AN IOWA patriarch is too old to be fash-
ionable. Over eighty, he is yet the father
of a three-year old baby, the last of thirty,
and is proud of his youngest. Here in Utah
such a man with his wife would command
respect, as an honor to the commonwealth.
How is it in Iowa?
	VIRGINIA, THE “Old Dominion,” still en-
joys horse racing with ladies for riders; and
at a recent fair in Culpepper, three fair
equestrians rode so well that the judges had
to decide by lot which should have the
prize. There is more vigor of body and
manly honesty to the next generation in
such exercises being enjoyed by the coming
mothers, than lolling in cushioned chairs
devouring trashy sentimental novels can
give.
[new column]
	INDIAN TROUBLES in Texas, in Dacotah,
on the line of the Northern Pacific, in Idaho,
Arizona, and in other parts of the great
sparcely settled portion of the United States,
while delegations of chiefs are visiting
Washington, and being feasted and petted
there. However wise may be the general
policy of Government towards the Indians,
it will be unsuccessful until honest men can
be found to act between the Government
and the Indians; and honest men seem a
scarce article in such positions.
	GROSS FRAUDS are charged in the late
Pennsylvania election; and what is worse,
in several instances glaring ones have been
proved. Just when money can buy the
requisite number of votes, or fraud secure
them, or both combined,to carry an election,
at that time republican liberty has received
its death blow in the country, and central-
ized tyranny of any pre-determined kind
need only wait the will of capitalists and
clever scoundrels who may be placed in con-
trol of election matters.
	A TERRIBLE horse disease is spreading
in epidemic form through the Eastern States.
Having made its appearance in Canada
about a month ago, it has spread into the
United States, and has attacked thousands
on thousands of animals. Science cannot
account for it, and the knowing ones are be-
wildered. It is one of the signs of the times
which the wise understand, but which those
who disregard the workings of a higher
Power among the nations vainly seek to
comprehend.
	SARAH M. HUNTINGDON, of Norwalk,
Connecticut, is likely to be the first woman
that will cast a vote for President of the
United States. On Saturday last, the 26th
ult., she was duly recognized by the select-
men of that town, and on next Tuesday can
cast her ballot for Grant or Greeley as potent-
ly as any “independent sovereign” in the
country. All honor to Norwalk, which has
set the example to all other towns in the
States, by following the lead of Utah and
Wyoming, in giving to woman representa-
tion with taxation.
	THE TRIAL of the New York official
thieves may be said to have commenced
with that of Mayor Hall, and so far the dis-
closures show how the tax payers of that
city were robbed. When New York, Phila-
delphia, Washington, Boston, Chicago, San
Francisco and a few other large cities weed
out their official rogues, their masculine de-
stroyers of virtue, and their dens of infamy
and vice, we will be content at their paying
a little attention to Utah. But their work
of justice and labor of charity should begin
at home.
	IF THE following could be adhered to and
its regulation respected the complaints
about tyrant officials and misconstructions of
law, order and justice, would cease to vex
the ears of the Government: “Complete
liberty and exact equality in the enjoyment
of all civil, political, public and private rights
should be established and effectually main-
tained throughout the Union by efficient
and appropriate State and Federal legisla-
tion. Neither law nor its administration
should admit of any discrimination in re-
[new column]
spect to citizens by reason of race, creed,
color, or previous condition of servitude.”
	AMONG THE most important events of the
current year will be counted the opening of
the telegraph lines across the continent of
South America, connecting Valparaiso with
Buenos Ayres, and to Australia, connecting
Melbourne and Singapore. When connec-
tions between Panama and Valparaiso, Egypt
and the Cape of Good Hope, Panama and
San Diego shall be made, telegraphic bonds
will then bind together the whole civilized
world. And railways and steamships will
hasten on, making the inhabitants of the
earth as near one family as their varied
customs and notions will admit of their be-
coming.
	J. A. FROUDE, the eminent English histo-
rian, has been telling New Yorkers what he
knows about Ireland’s dissatisfaction under
its subjugation to England; and frankly con-
fessed that, with other intelligent English-
men, he was at a loss to understand the
cause of that dissatisfaction. When such
men honestly admit their ignorance on so
important a matter, there is reason to hope
that it may be intelligently enquired into;
but in the past, the great blunder has been
one that is too common in many things and
with many persons, of imagining that every-
thing was understood, and proceeding to re-
move causes of evil which did not exist,
while the actual causes were left untouched
and undiscovered.
	“THERE IS no longer any temptation to
indulge in tight lacing for a small waist is
not now considered fashionable; that is, a
waist out of proportion to the height of the
figure and the breadth of the shoulders.
Fashion and comfort are, therefore, happily
in accordance with each other. Another re-
form is that the waist is now displayed the
natural length, which, in a properly pro-
portioned figure, is in a line midway between
the hip and the lowest rib.” We clip the
forgoing from a lady’s magazine. It is to
be hoped that news of this common-sense re-
form is being rapidly and widely spread,
and the change adopted. If fashion could
dispense with the temptation to indulge
in the use of high heels and hunch-backs,
and some other ridiculous, unnatural and
cruel customs, she would be a much more
pleasing and loveable tyrant than she now
appears.
	TWO EMINENT Americans have passed
from, earth since the last issue of the Ex-
ponent; one—Wm. H. Seward—eminent
as a statesman; the other—“Fanny Fern”—
famed in the world of letters. The nation
mourned the honored Seward, and unaffect-
ed sorrow was felt when his death was an-
nounced. The authoress, too, had a wide
circle of mourners. But death strikes the
lofty and the prominent with as little hesi-
tation as the lowest and most obscure. It is
the common lot, and they meet it best who
meet it bravely after well spent lives. The
people of Utah should preserve green the
memory of Mr. Seward, who, animated by
liberal views and possessing a statesman’s
enlightened and far-seeing mind, was over
opposed to the persecution and proscription,
sought to be directed against them, and en-
deavored to have their rights as Ameri-
can citizens justly observed.


