PHILOSOPY AND PROPHECY

	When the great Chicago conflagration was
held to be a judgement—one of those which
the prophecies have said should be poured out
upon the nations for their wickedness—the be-
lief so expressed was met with sneers of the
most violent kind, and the idea was denounced
as puritanical and fanatical in the extremest-
degree. In fact so wide-spread is the infidelity
of the present day, that to recognize the hand
of the Almighty in anything is held to be
fanatical and puritanical. The world of Chris-
tians have turned philosophers, and their
philosophy does not recognize God. It finds a
cause for everything without the intervention
of Deity; and, when narrowed down to a point,
popular religion now is a faith that does not in-
clude a belief in the existence of an Omnipotent
power at all.
	Last Saturday night another calamity like
the Chicago one burst upon the City of Boston.
For over forty hours the flames raged beyond
control, sweeping awy building after building
constructed of materials usually held to be fire-
proof. An exchange says:
	The same astounding results of intense heat
witnessed in the Chicago conflagration were
demonstrated in this. Granite buildings per-
ished almost instantaneously, crumbling to
powder as though they had been simply consol-
idated blocks of ashes or sand. Great masses
of stone burst into fragments, as if split by
blasts of nitro-glycerine, and the air seemed
full of deadly missiles, threatening destruction
to any one who attempted to stay the riotous
progress of the destroying flames.
	And of the Chicago fire a gentleman who
witnessed the awful conflagration says that
blazing beams of wood were carried long dis-
tances, as if invisible bands were at work to
so spread the agent of destruction. Forty years
ago the people of New York, Albany and
Boston were warned by the Lord through His
servants that His wrath would be poured out
upon them unless they repented. But who
would expect New York with its wealth, its
power, and its pride, to repent? And who
would look for the intellectual and haughty
Boston to think that it needed repentance? It
may seem harsh and almost inhuman to speak
thus of a terrible calamity while the sympathies
of the nation are turned towards the city that
has suffered so much. But would the surgeon
be humane whose sympathies prevented his
advising cauterization where a rabid dog had
bitten a human being? It will be said, and
justly, that this visitation, like all others of the
same kind, has swept away the last stay in life
of the good as well as of the bad. Probably
as in the Chicago fire the dwellings of the worst
women who live in Boston have not suffered.
But were they the wickedness of that city?
Who made them things of crime and shame?
Who drove them to degradation and ruin?
Let the men who occupy palatial buildings an-
swer.
	Philosophy seizes minute details and hypo-
critically asks explanation; while prophecy
deals with generalities, and warns a people
beforehand. Philosophy calls for an analitical
investigation of the causes which produce such
a calamity; prophecy foretells the evil and
warns a people against it. For years the
Almighty has warned this and other nations,
but His warnings have been laughed at and
disregarded. He has said that after the warn-
ing of His servants He would send earthquakes,
the sea breaking beyond its bounds, the voice
of the tempest, and the power of Jehovah
made manifest in great storms and tribulations
coming upon the earth. All these things are
of daily occurrence.  Weekly the inhabitants
of the earth are startled with accounts of
calamities which frighten and appal; yet
philosophy accounts for them while prophecy
is never considered. And apparently thus it
will be until the great consumation shall have
been effected, and the few having faith in God
shall see and experience the power of His
salvation.


