HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				—
	IF a woman aspires to be a proficient in
music, dancing, dressmaking, millinery, or
any other pleasant and useful forte, she ap-
plies her attention to it and takes pains to
acquaint herself with the various require-
ments which are likely to meet her in her
chosen pursuit. But the one great object
for which woman was designed, is too gener-
ally totally neglected, until she crosses the
threshold, enters a new world, and has ac-
tually taken upon her, by vow, the greatest
responsibilities which ever are or can be
placed upon her. She has promised by sacred
covenant to be a true, a faithful wife. How
little must girls realize of the vast import-
ance attached to that promise, which to ful-
fill with dignity and wisdom, requires the
choicest learning and discretion. True it is
that a good, kind, daughter and sister can
hardly fail to make a tender, patient, wife
and mother; but frequently much more is
required of the wife than the daughter ever
thinks of. Husbands are not likely to be as
charitable and considerate with their young
wives as parents with their daughters. And
it should be remembered that perfection in
any one branch of education, or even in
many of the most noble character, does .not
constitute a true wife. Whatever her other
attainments may be, if a woman does not
possess an even, well-governed temper, and
agreeable disposition, she will not make a
happy wife; for all other powers of mind and
body, it matters not how vivacious and bril-
liant they may appear at times, would fail
to create the requisite sunshine for the
rendering of a home cheerful and pleasant.
And in order to keep good natured, if a wo-
man is as sensitive and high-minded as any
man of common understanding would like 
[new colmn]
his wife to be, she must know how to con-
trive and manage her household affairs so as
to have every thing work smoothly, in
proper time and order, and have no jars to
interfere with the quiet concerns of every-
day life. Almost above every thing else,
she should be a first-class cook—i. e., she
should cultivate reason in this as well as
other things, and cook sensibly. In “John
Halifax” we find the following which recom-
mends itself:
	“Good temper, with many people, is
dependent upon good health; good health
upon good digestion; good digestion upon
wholesome, well-prepared food, eaten in
peace and pleasantness. Ill-cooked, untidy
meals are as great a cause for bad temper as
many a moral wrong; and a person of sensi-
tive physique may be nursed into a settled
hypochondria by living in close rooms,
where the sweet fresh air and sunshine are
determinedly shut out.”
	Potatoes.—No amount of fancy French
dishes can atone, at table, for want of skill
or care in cooking potatoes. Yet cooks often
fail in this simple and common dish. They
will put potatoes into cold water and bring
them slowly to a boil; or boil or bake them
too long. They should be removed from
the fire as soon as done. If boiled the water
should be drained off immediately.
	Potato Pudding.—Four ounces of pota-
toes, three ounces of white sugar, the same
of butter, two lemons, four eggs. Rub the
boiled potatoes through a sieve, add the
sugar pounded, and the butter; mix well;
then add the eggs well beaten; and last of
all the juice and grated rind of the lemons.
Line your dish with thin puff paste, making
it thicker at the edges; bake in a moderate
oven, not letting the pudding stand long
before baking; and it must be well stirred
just before putting it into the oven.
	Extraordinary stories are told of the
healing properties of a new oil, which is
easily made from the yolks of hen’s eggs.
The eggs are first boiled hard and the yolks
are then removed, crushed, and placed over
a fire where they are carefully stirred until
the whole substance is on the point of
catching fire, when the oil separates and
may be tured off. One yolk will yield nearly
two teaspoonfuls of oil. It is in general use
among the colonists of South Russia, as a
means of curing cuts, bruises and scratches.
	To Cure Pimples.—Abstain from every-
thing containing melted butter and lard.
Take a thorough daily scrubbing from head
to foot. Sleep cool, drink pure water, think
pure thoughts, and live a pure life.


"WE HAVE,” said Mr. Cox, “fallen on an
evil time. The olden day, when austerity
and simplicity gave rule to manners and
men, when a sense of public duty was the
brightest virtue of the statesman, has be-
come a nebulous, dim and hazy; recollection.
Can we not redeem the time? Is there no
man who has the plainness and frugality,
the benevolence and justice, to meet the
crisis?” There are men, and women too,
who have still enough of elevated and un-
selfish principle about them to be willing to
undertake the redemption of the good times
past; but where there are so many slothful
and dishonest harpies seeking and obtaining
offices, as judges and rulers, all over the
country, in order that they may live from
the earnings of the people, and not have to
exert themselves, as honest men do, to ob-
tain a livelihood, Mr. Cox, or any one else
need not hope for a speedy reformation; for
no man good and great enough to create
one, is likely to be vested with the authori-
ty.


