SPLINTERS.
	The Pope has appointed the reverend Mr.
Vaughan Bishop of Salford,England......The
rinderpest has appeared in the country
around Mons, Belgium.......The desperado
Saunders, alias “Red Bill,” was recently
shot at Osceola, Missouri, by the city Mar-
shal......Dr. J. Brinton Smith, Principal of
the St. Augustine colored school of Raleigh,
North Carolina, is dead......Iowa supports
thirteen camp meetings at once......Feldspar,
hitherto imported from Spain, has been dis-
covered in Connecticut......Georgia will not
tax cotton or woolen mills erected there for
two years......The Pope was considerably
indisposed at Rome the other day......San
Antonio, Texas, offeres $500,000 to expedite
the railway communication with Austin......
It is rumored in France that Gambetta will be
a candidate for the Vice-Presidency of the
Republic......E. R. Hoar has been nominated
for Congress in the Seventh District of Mas-
sachusetts......The total value of all known
diamonds, exclusive of Arizona and Alaska,
is $1,000,000,000......Governor Scott, of
South Carolinn, has commenced suit against
the New York “Tribune” for libel......San
Francisco had an earthquake on the 1st inst.
......Late reports from Japan say the party
of progress are losing ground......The death
penalty has been abolished in Peru, and
fifteen years imprisonment is to be the
maximum of all punishment in that Repub-
lic......The best portrait of Bismarck is said
to be engraved as a frontispiece to his life,
published two years ago by Harper & Bro’s.
......Sumner demands peace and reconcilia-
tion on all sides......Queen Victoria has pre-
sented Nellie Grant with her portrait set in
precious stones......In some of the towns in
New England, apples are so plentiful that
farmers are offering cider at $1.50 per barrel.
......A New Orleans lady, the champion
swimer at Mississippi City, swam 1,600 feet
without stopping, a few days since, and.
thinks she could have made 2,000 by a little
more exertion.......Bierstadt is in Inyo
County, California, taking, sketches in the
Sierras for future paintings......English is
the vernacular of seventy millions of people.
......During the year past, the tax collector
of San Francisco has paid into the treasury
over $2,800,000......Miss Grace Anna Lewis,
of Pennsylvania, has achieved a large suc-
cess in the department of ornithology, and
has given public lectures on birds.......The
United States has 65,000 miles of complete
railroads......A swimmer at the steamboat
wharf in Fall River, recently, dispersed a
whole prayer meeting to rescue him, by pre-
tending that he was drowning..........Blue
overcoats and gilt buttons, like our grand-
fathers wore, will be the style for the com-
ing winter....... A Paris gymnast, known as
Sampson Iron Jaw, whose specialty was pick-
ing up weights with his teeth and throwing
them over his head, raised a barrel with his
teeth and in attempting to dispose of it, fell
dead with a broken spine......The Iowa girls
turn out in torchlight processions and fill
the air with shrieks for their favorite candi-
dates......An Indiana woman, lately di-
vorced, writes a letter of advice to the girls
in which she says, “I would not marry
young, and when I was married would live
at least fifty miles from my husband’s rela-
tives”.....Apple trees are blooming for the
second time in the neighborhood of Gilroy.
......The railroad companies own one-fifth of
Kansas......A late heavy storm did much
damage to the shipping on the great lakes,
and many lives were lost......Athens, Geor-
gia, has a paper called the “Cat” with the
motto “I can scratch”......Mobile has sus-
pended her dog law for want of dogs......A
[new column]
Detroit ferry-boat draws custom with a brass
band......A Virginia letter-carrier speaks
eight languages besides the profane......A
considerate man in Illinois paid all his debts
before committing suicide......Trouble is
threatening between Chili and Bolivia, and
somebody may get killed.......A Michigan
lad kicked a can of nitro-glycerine. He did
not need a coffin, but will require an artifi-
cial leg......A London law-suit, a hundred
and forty-seven years old, has just termina-
ted......South Carolina holds an election to-
morrow.......“Inflatable rubber bustles” are
announced, and they are said to impart
great bouyancy to the movements. Some
ladies could do with less buoyancy......St.
Louis has invented moonlight funerals......
Omaha has grown to 20,000 inhabitants
from none in eighteen years.......Seventy
students can be admitted to the Russian
special courses, of medicine and surgery for
women. Three hundred have applied......A
ten foot alligator is boarding at the St.
Louis dog pound......More news and less
politics will characterize the newspapers in
another month......A western paper calls
Laura D. Fair “the pretty bully in bomba-
zine.”


