HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	MOTHERS in general, remarks Miss S., do
not realize how early the education of their
children commences. Children are born
with intelligence undeveloped; and as it is
manifested at times in the expressions and
actions of the tiny infant, it understands
more, and has really more knowledge of
what we say to it, than people gener-
ally give it credit for. That child upon its
mother’s lap—a baby six or eight months
old—knows from her kisses and caresses
that she loves it; that when it jumps and
coos she is pleased with its brightness and
good nature; and if it ever cries and is dis-
tressed, it realized from the soothing, pity-
ing tone and the tender expression of its
mother’s face, that she sympathizes and suf-
fers with it. It knows, too, if she is truth-
ful and honest with it. Its education is al-
ready begun. Mothers, if you would have
your children love and speak the truth,
never let them hear you speak the least un-
truth. If you would have them virtuous,
charitable and generous, cultivate the same
qualities in yourselves. And if you want
them to be reflective and studious, prayer-
ful and diligent in doing good, let them
see you the same in your every day course;
and even before the little ones make their
appearance upon the grand stage of life, let
these principles be implanted in their or-
ganizations. We cannot plant thistle seeds
and expect fig trees to grow from them. If
you desire your offspring to be healthy
and live long, take care that you do not en-
gender in their physical natures the seeds
of disease and premature decay. First learn
wisdom yourselves, and then you will be
potent to impart the same to future genera-
tions. In giving instructions of any kind,
or corrections, light or heavy, it is a thing
worth remembering, that “All wise govern-
ment begins with self-government.”
	BATHING.—The first thing to be done
when a bath is to be given is to prepare the
room, making it of a comfortable tempera-
ture. The second is to prepare the bath,
using soft water, and making it of the right
temperature, as indicated by a thermome-
ter. Persons sometimes ask us to explain
what is meant by certain temperatures, so
that they can get along without a thermome-
ter. This is impossible. The terms, hot,
cold, warm, tepid, are so indefinite and con-
vey such different impressions to different
persons, as to be entirely unreliable in giv-
ing directions. If a person in fever is to be
packed, his conditions are much more readi-
ly controlled by wetting two sheets in
water at 90°, wringing them but slightly,
and packing him in them, or even puting
him into a fresh pack when the one becomes
heated, than by putting him into a cold
sheet, The idea that the hotter a person is
the colder should be his bath, is productive
of great mischief. The rule is exactly the
reverse of this; that is: a person in a high
fever should have his bath at a higher tem-
perature than if he had no fever; for what,
[new column]
in the latter case, would be a pleasant tem-
perature to him, would be shockingly cold
in the former.
	BLEEDING AT THE LUNGS.—Put cold
cloths on the head, a hot brick or hot bath
for the feet, and on the throat and chest ap-
play cloths wrung out of warm water. Keep
the patient quiet.
	IN all diseases we cannot too strongly urge
the necessity of good nursing. Absolute
cleanliness of person, clothing, room and air
must be had at all times. Quietness, hope-
fulness and cheerfulness are of more value
to the sick than gold, silver and diamonds.
—Ex.


