SPLINTERS.
				—
	Flogging has been abolished in the public
schools in Chicago......Nellie Grant is at
home......A man in Petaluma, California,
has made a discovery of means by which
perpetual motion may be sustained, and
values the discovery at $20,000,000; of
course......The Supreme Court of Maine has
admitted Mrs. C. H. Nash to practice as an
attorney and counselor at-law......Rome is
to have a daily newspaper edited by an
American......A plague is carrying off the
poultry on the banks of the Hudson and
every three hundred inhabitants......The
known coal deposits of the Rocky Mountain
region extend over an area of upwareds of
250,000 square miles......Tennessee has a
colored female preacher......Rosa Bonheur
will visit the United States next year......
Boston public Schools have abolished the
system of offering prize medals......The
Oneida Community abolish marriage alto-
gether and the women of the Community
are said to look listless and spiritless......At
Oatka Falls, Kansas, they have a farmers’
wives’ club......A recent diamond robbery at
the Cape of Good Hope amounted to the
value of L30,000......Mrs, Yelverton is in
Africa with the intention, it is reported, of
joining Dr. Livingstone......The public debt
of Texas is estimated at $23,361,000......A
couple of young ladies at Monticello Avenue,
Jersey City, “laid out” a drunken sailor in
a ditch, the other day, for standing in their
way on the crossing and demanding a kiss
for toll......The “Freeman’s” oath was duly
administered to Mrs. Huntington of Norwalk
Conn., by the Board of Selectmen, but the
registers refused to put her name in the
voting list......The “Young Woman’s Chris-
tian Association,” of Boston, is soliciting
contributions, to aid young women who
have been thrown out of employment by
the great fire......Specie in the Bank of
France increased one million francs in one
week lately......J. Richie, of Vallejo, Cali-
fornia, has this season captured fifteen
sharks......Earthquake shocks in the Owens
river and Haiovi Meadows have been quite
frequent of late......Rich tin deposits are
reported to have been discovered within
twenty miles of San Francisco......The resi-
dences of the late James Gordon Bennett, at
Washington Heights and Fifth Avenue, New
York, are to let for five years......The St,
Louis “Evening Dispatch” has been pur-
chased by Robert Barclay for $120,000......
The Secretary of War compliments Congress
for completeness in last year’s legislation......
Susquehanna rivers......The laws of Kansas
give mothers the management of their
children......Judge Mayer refused to record
the votes of women in Oregon, on election
day......Cinnabar is said to abound in the
vicinity of Harrisburg, Linn Co., Oregon.
......A German woman refused to acknow-
ledge her three children to avoid paying for
their ride on the cars......California has a
hotel composed of ten immense hollow trees;
they are Calaveras Big trees...The figures
of the entire standing army of Europe are
put at 5,164,300......On the splendid marble
monument and tomb of Ferdinand and
Isabella, in the Cathedral at Grenada, the
king and queen are represented as lying
side by side......A new religious sect has
been started in Iowa, the members of which
call themselves Americans......An Italian
journal announces the death, at Placenza,
her native city, of Benedotta Pisaroni, aged
79, a celebrated soprano and contralto
singer of former days......Old woodsmen
mention as a curious fact, that beech and
sycamore trees are never struck by lightning,
though found in close proximity to oak,
[new column]
hickery and other species of trees that are 
often found torn to pieces by the subtle
fluid......A recent female collector who had
been round gathering up contributions for
“Widow Smith,” in San Francisco, was
discovered drunk in a saloon frequented
by thieves, and taken to the “calaboose.”......
San Francisco, it is said, has one widow to
Memories of Dean Alford are being pub-
lished...The great lion tamer, Herr Dries-
bach, is a farmer now, in Iowa......The
Grand Duke Nicholas, of Russia, is on a
pleasure trip to Greece......The Pope has
nominated an editor to the bishopric.......
The monument, of General Lee, in Rich-
mond, Virginia, will soon be completed......
The royal physician, Sir William Gull, lately
received $4,000 for a single visit......The
house of Dante, in Florence, is being sadly
neglected......The grandfather of the late
William H. Seward was a Colonel in the
Revolutionary war......Female voices are
prohibited in the choir under the jurisdic-
tion of Archbishop Manning......St. Louis
is going to erect a statue to the gallant Gen-
eral Nathaniel Lyon.....Mrs. Dr. Groasse,
of Milwaukee, has been sentenced to five
years imprisonment for passing counterfeit
money.


