		A MOTHER’S RESIGNATION.

Oh, rare, pale image! wrought in priceless clay;
Of faultless outline, wearing matchless grace;
Whose broad, fair brow where mind held kingly sway,
Well crowned the beauty of the tender face,
Small fingers, clasping flowers pale and sweet—
Fair emblems of the dear one’s brief, bright stay !
All, all, from gold-crowned head to slender feet.
More precious are than pearls, though only clay.

For oh, this empty casket held a soul
Most grand, yet gentle, noble, good and brave;
And that shall live while endless ages roll,
Though this dear clay must moulder in the grave.
The glad, young soul, buoyant, pure and bright,
With all the witching ways to childhood known,
Those clear, deep eyes, truth’s crystal mirrors, light
No more this world, with clouds now overblown.

The world rolls on with all its devious ways,
Its cruel pitfalls, tempests, snares and thorns,
And struggling souls who fix their fainting gaze
Upon the goal, beyond the strife and storms.
Temptations still entrap unwary feet,
And rushing floods engulf, and lions roar,
And treachery stings, still yawns the gulf deceit,
And chasms the bridge that faith can scarce span o’er,

Oh favored son! whose white and tender feet
Were not fore-doomed the flinty paths to tread,
And bleed and blister ’mid the dust and heat,
While thorny chaplet crowned the martyr head;
Thou wert admitted through a pearly door
Where dewy flowers instead of serpents twine;
Temptation lurks in wait for thee no more,
For now, beloved one, thou art God’s—and mine.

Then go, my saint, and for thy mother pray,
Whose torn and bleeding heart beats faintly on,
And aches so yearningly thy head to lay
Upon her breast, thy heart against her own—
For flesh is weak; but mother-love is strong
And deep laid as the everlasting hills;
I’d not recall thee, lest I’d do thee wrong
To wish thee subject to life’s fearful ills.

While here, I longed to see thee conquer wrong
And champion virtue, strong in honor’s might;
But oh! how many a dear and gifted son
Has failed to win the battle all must fight
Thou might’s’ have won the victor’s deathless crown
And gained thy God’s serene, approving smile.
But, fearful thought! thou might’st have faltered
	down
The depths of sin, ensnared by cunning guile.

I fear not worldy pride may win thee now,
Nor guile betray, nor flames of guilt devour;
No passions vile e’er bend thy sinless brow,
Nor deadly foes assail thee every hour.
God’s will is wiser than our frail desires,
His mercy tenderer than our purest love;
And I can yield to this since He requires, 
And name thee now, “My waiting saint above.”
									Lu Dalton.


