F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
				—
	Miss Eliza R. Snow, President of the Fe-
male Relief Societies, accompanied by Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard and the editor of the
EXPONENT, paid a visit recently to Payson,
Utah County, and held a meeting of the
F. R. Society of that city, attended by many
of the adjacent settlements, in the
[new column]
Payson New Tabernacle on September 26th,
at 2 o’clock, p.m.
	Bishop J. S. Tanner and other Elders, pres-
ent by invitation, occupied seats in the
stand.
	The meeting was called to order by Mrs.
B. Jane Simons, President of the Payson
Society, and was opened by singing and
prayer; after which President Miss E. R.
Snow addressed the assembly.
	She said the name, “Female Relief So-
ciety” was suggested and established by
vote when the first organization took place.
The question had been agitated for some
time, whether the name would not be
rendered more appropriate by the omission
of the word “Female,” and the calling of
these associations merely “Relief Societies.”
She thought that this modification would
improve the application; and others with
whom she had communicated on the subject
held the same opinion. But as the name
was established by vote, it must also be
changed by an expression from a majority
of those interested, if at all, because every
thing we do should be done legally. She
then called for an expression of the feelings
of those present and all voted for the modi-
fication of the name. The speaker contin-
ued, “The sisters of Payson hold a very
warm place in my heart; they have proved
themselves ready to make sacrifices of their
own feelings for the general good. Those
who are the most noble, cultivated and re-
fined, are ever the first to sacrifice their
feelings for the good of others. Woman fills
an important sphere; her duties are most
significant; and for this reason she should be
educated. It is admitted that woman forms
the character of society; that she gives char-
acter to her children, and that the most
minute parts of their education depend up-
on her. It is quite as necessary that we
study the superstructure of the human body,
as many other things upon which much
time is spent. We are calling on those sis-
ters who are sufficiently ambitious and per-
severing, to come forward and aid in organ-
izing and supporting classes for the purpose
of gaining knowledge pertaining to the laws
of life and health. We want a union of faith
and prayers upon this subject from the sister-
hoods throughout the Territory; and do not
expect to accomplish much without the co-
operation and assistance of the brethren,
but this we shall have. Our girls should be
educated in order that they may become
wise, good mothers, and plant the seeds pf
true, rich intelligence in the future genera-
tion. Many of the young men of our com-
munities would be less intemperate find un-
stable, had their mothers better understood
the laws which govern human nature.”
	The meeting was also addressed by Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard, Miss L. L. Greene,
Elders Isaiah Coombs, John Loveless, Robt.
Wimmer, Gustave Simons, Orrawell Sim-
ons, President Mrs. B. J. Simons—who
suggested that another meeting be held in
the evening which was voted for unani-
mously—Counsellor Mrs. Agnes Douglas
and Bishop J. S. Tanner, who also dismissed
the meeting by prayer.
	At 7 o’clock, a general invitation to all
who were desirous of attending having been
extended, a very respectable congregation
of gentlemen and ladies gathered and
listened to short but interesting and edify-
ing remarks, from Elders George Rust,
D. Lant and Miss E. R. Snow. A welcome to
Sister Snow was also read.
	In her remarks, Miss Snow said to the
sisters, “Our aims have been too low; we
must improve them. We have been in the
habit of thinking we could do so little.”
She recommended the organization of a


Young Ladies’ Society, and, if she might be
permitted, would recommend the brethren
to organize Young Gentlemen’s Societies
also.
	The kind hospitality with which Miss
Snow and her companions were received
and entertained during their visit to Pay-
son, by all, and particularly by Mrs Agnes
Douglas and family, deserves honorable
mention. They were called upon by a
number of the sisters, among whom
were Counsellor Mrs. Moore and Mrs. Mary
A. Hardy, Secretary of the Payson Relief
Society.


