HUMOR.

	One thing that can always be found—
fault.
	Something you can always borrow—
trouble.
	Vested interests—Money in the waist-
coat pocket.
	What is taken from you before you get
it? Your photograph.
	Who pays the highest price for a home?
The woman who marries for one.
	If you court a young woman, and you are
won and she is won, you will both be one.
	Why is the alphabet like cutting the first
teeth?—because it is taught yer (torture)
when young.
	“You seem to walk more erect than usual,
my friend.” “Yes, I have been straightened
by circumstances.”
	The Freeport "Journal" says: Pairs are
abundant in this place and front gates are
loaded down with them on fine evenings.
	The man whose hair turned white in a
single night is surpassed by the New York
girl who lost hers completely off in a single
dance.
	“Mamma, I don’t see how Satan turned
out to be such a bad fellow; there wasn’t
any devil to put him up to it.”
	Lord Brougham once said that no man
had any right to a nervous system who does
not possess two thousand a year.
	A poor young man remarks that the only
advice he gets from capitalists is to “live
within his income,” whereas the difficulty
he experiences is to live without an income.
	It is stated that a boy was lynched while
endeavoring to sell the passengers on one of
the blockaded Pacific Railroad trains, copies
of the ballad of “Beautiful Snow.”
	“Ah, parson, I wish I could take my gold
with me,” said rich old Deacon Swipes. “It
might melt if you did,” quietly replied the
parson.
	Epitaph on Mrs. Jones:—“She was first
cousin to the Earl of Cork; she was bland,
affable, religious; she painted in water-
colors; and of such is the kingdom of
“Heaven.”
	An inquiring man thrust his fingers into
a horse’s mouth to see how many teeth he
had. The horse closed his mouth to see how
many fingers the man had. The curiosity
of each was fully satisfied.
	What is fashion, Annie? Fashion is
something that causes Betsy, who goes bare-
headed all the week, when the sun is
shining, to wear gloves and carry a parasol
on Sunday, when it is cloudy.
	A little boy was sent to a store for some
eggs. Before reaching home he dropped
them. In answer to his mother, who asked,
“Did you break any?” he replied, “No, I
didn’t break any, but the shells came off
some of them.”
	A Sunday-school teacher who had almost 
become discouraged over the listlessness of
her class, at last felt rewarded by an inter-
esting look from a little girl. The reward
was lost when the little creature touched a
bracelet on her arm and asked, “Teacher,
are them threaded on ’lastic?”
	There is a man in Portland, Maine, who
supports his family in a handsome style by
simply tying an able-bodied cat by the tail
to a clothes-line every night, and then going
out in the morning to collect the soap, shav.
ing-cups, brushes, etc., thrown into the
yard by angry boarders in adjoining houses.


