FLOWERS.
				—
	Nothing is so reasonable and cheap as
good manners.
	There is no grace in a benefit that sticks
to the fingers.
	How few the men who dare to be just
what they are.
	No person knows what he would do till
comes the time to decide.
	If you would add to the happiness of
yourself and others, work without fretting.
	Mrs. Partington says she gets up every
morning at the chill carrion of the chande-
lier.
	He who does evil that good may come
pays a toll to the devil to let him into
Heaven.
	Of all earthly music, that which reaches
farthest into heaven is the beating of a
loving heart.
	If men strove as hard for happiness as
for money, manhood would be more glorious
than now.
	Neither death nor life is as serious as
maarriage. Yet nothing is entered into
more thoughtlessly.
	A man that hoards riches and enjoys
them not, is like an ass that carries gold
and eats thistles.
	Good epigrams, like good jokes, never
lose their youth; but when and where they
commence their wanderings, “you nor I nor
no one knows.
	One should not be downcast at failures.
They are often far better for the student
than success. He who goes to school to his
mistakes will always have a good school-
master, and will not be likely to become idle
or conceited.
	“When speaking of the dead,” says Sir
James Puckle, in his “Gray Cap for a Green
Head,” a volume abounding in quaint
similies folded about kernels of good sense
—“When speaking of the dead, so fold up
your discourse that their virtues may be
outwardly shown, while their vices are
wrapped up in silence.” A good way in
which to speak of the living, too.
	“Who says angels must be all young and
splendid? Are there not some comforting
ones, shabby and tender, whose radiance
does not dazzle nor bewilder; whose faces
are worn, perhaps, while their stars shine
with a tender, tremulous light, more sooth-
ing to our aching earth-bound hearts than
the glorious radiance of brighter spirits?”
	The habit of fretting becomes so settled
that it is very difficult to overcome, in every-
thing in life, whether of great or small
importance. It is well worth the effort to
look upon things in a cheerful light for
personal comfort and the happiness of those
around us. A hornet’s nest is a dangerous
and disagreeable thing to stir up, but not
worse than the disposition of some fretting
men and women.—“Elm Orlou,”


[For the Exponent.
