FALSE LOGIC.
			 	——
	On the 18th ult. a woman in this city took
poison and died. Her domestic life had been
unhappy, and from the indifference manifested
by her husband under the terrible circum-
stances, according to the evidence given at the
inquest, there is reason to believe that he
viewed the self-inflicted destruction of his wife
as more of a relief than a calamity. How far


h e was responsible for the fearful act, by his
treatment of his wife, will probably never be
known in time; but the unhappy woman fled
from a life of misery to a sudden and self-pro-
cured death. Her husband was not a polyga-
mist, nor were either of them “Mormons;” facts
which there seems little need for our stating,
for had either been different the tragic incident
would have been heralded to the world as a
natural result of “Mormon polygamy.” Sup-
pose this family to have been Methodists,
or Roman Catholics: did their domestic in-
felicity destroy any truth which either of
these religious systems possess? Did it
prove either to be a false faith? And is
their unhappiness and the suicide resulting
from it, any argument against marriage, or any
reason why people should not marry but re-
main single?
	Suicides are so common in Christian countries
that they form a prominent item in social and
criminal statistics. What would be thought of
the person who would reason, because married
persons lived unhappy and one or other of a
couple sought this terrible means of breaking
the marriage tie, that therefore marriage was a
curse to the human family? Yet reasoning of
this absurd kind is freely used relative to “Mor-
monism,” and the system of marriage which is
held sacred by the Latter-day Saints. Men and
women have their irritable moments, their
hours following rash words hastily spoken,
when regret, pain, and even anger, hold sway.
This is the result of their inability to exercise
perfect control over themselves; one of the evi-
dences that humanity is imperfect. Yet who
shall say that any ordained condition of society
is responsible for this? It only proves, as the
poet has beautifully expressed it, that “The
trail of the serpent is over us all.”
	The case which we have referred to in this
city furnishes no text, only that man can be
unkind and brutal, and woman, maddened, can
do desperate things. And had the pair been
professedly “Mormons” this would have been
the only text derivable from it. "While the
conclusion would have been certain that neither
lived according to the Gospel of the Son of
God. But one thing must be noted in connec-
tion with it. The very silence of those papers
and parties that would have seized the circum-
stance most eagerly as a powerful argument
against polygamy, had the persons been “Mor-
mons,” is an acknowledgement of the superi-
ority of “Mormon” principles, by admitting
that it would have been much more noteworthy
had it occurred in a polygamist family. While
the truth remains the same, that neither mon-
ogamy nor polygamy is free from misery where
ungoverned passion rules; while they who are
governed by correct principle, animated by
pure desires, and understand aright the relation-
ship which the sexes bear to each other and man-
kind to the Creator, will live in love, peace
and happiness, though the famly circle should
embrace one husband and fifty wives.


