F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
					—
			SMITHFIELD, CACHE CO., 
						Nov. 8th, 1872. 

Editor Exponent:-
	We held our Monthly meeting on the 4th
inst., of which I send you a very brief
synopsis: Meeting was opened by singing
"O God the spring of all my joys:" prayer
offered by Counselor Mrs. Mary Ainscough:
minutes of previous meeting were read and 
accepted. President E. T. Morehead then 
addressed the meeting, encouraging the
sisters to be zealous in good works. Spoke
at some length upon Sabbath schools, and
the great blessings accruing therefrom to the
rising generation. felt deeply interested in
that laudable work, exhorted mothers to
have their children in attendance at proper
time, made reference to what the Hyrum
F. R. Society had done in behalf of the
Sabbath School in that settlement, which
was highly commendable. Counselor Mary
Ainscough spoke upon the same subject;
and upon the training of our children, 
urging the necessity of setting an example
before them worthy of imitation, etc. Mrs. 
J. Grant spoke on the principle of the 
Gospel and the blessing received in yielding
obedience thereto. 
	Some articles were read from the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT which we prize very
highly. A vote was taken that we drop the 
[new column]
word Female from the name of the Society
as suggested by Sister E. R. Snow, which
was unanimous. Monthly meeting  adjourned
till the first Monday in December.
	Benediction by Mrs. N. A. Noble.
		Mrs. Jane S. Coleman, Secretary.
				_____
			Farmington, Oct. 25th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	In Compliance with the request from
Sister Snow, to forward the proceedings of
our first meeting after seeing her notice, I
send the following. At our last meeting we
all felt to coincide with Sister Snow, and
the vote was unanimous to drop the word
“Female” from the name of our Society.
	We had a very good and interesting
meeting, the subject under consideration
being fashion and dress, to impress upon
the mothers the necessity of trying to cure
that spirit of fashion which exists among
the young daughters of Zion, at the present
time.
	I am a reader of the Exponent, anx-
iously watch for its coming, and am glad to
see it improving.
			S. J. Holmes, President.
			   _____
	From Mrs. Emily L. Hepworth, Secretary
of the F. R. Society of Oxford, Cache County,
we receive a lengthy report of a meeting held
at that place on the 22nd of October. Mrs.
M. A. Boice, who has been the President of
the Society for three years—since its organi-
zation—on account of her age and her many
responsibilities aside from those entailed
through her position in the Society, in
accordance with the advice of her husband,
presented her resignation to the sisters. A
very humble, pleasant spirit characterized
her resignation, and she blessed the sisters,
desiring to continue one with them and to
do all in her power to assist in sustaining and
strengthening the Latter-day-work. Kindly
feelings were expressed and thanks offered
to Sister Boice, for the good she had done in
the Society. Her resignation was accepted,
and on motion of Bishop George Lake, Mrs.
Sarah Cordon was chosen and sustained, by
a unanimous vote, to fill the vacancy thus
made. Sister Boice expressed warm wishes
for the success of the EXPONENT. 
				_____
	Reports of two meetings held in Ogden,
one on the 17th, the other on the 22nd of
Oct. The first was the regular semi-monthly
meeting of the Relief Society. Called to
order by President Mrs. J. S. Richards;
prayer by Mrs. Martha Bingham. The
minutes of the two preceding meetings
were read by the Secretary and acccepted. 
Sister Richards made remarks. She was
pleased with the carpet which had been
made by the Society, it had received much
praise both here and at Salt Lake City: She
had enjoyed herself much at Conference, had
visited and been instructed by Sister Snow. 
The motion was made and seconded that we 
leave off the prefixture of Female from the
name of the Society. Carried unanimously. 
An article concerning the name, was read
by sister H. C. Brown from the EXPONENT. 
Remarks were made by Martha Bingham,
Sarah Herrick and A. M. Frodsham. An
especial meeting was appointed for the fol-
lowing Tuesday, at, which, Sister E. R. 
Snow, her example as a faithful and energetic
Saint and her approaching jonrney to Jeru-
salem were to be topics for consideration.
Secretary A. M. Frodsham requested the
sisters to subscribe for the EXPONENT, and
meeting was dismissed by Sister Richards. 
							Oct. 22. 
	The sisters met according to adjournment, 
sister J. Richards presiding. Several sisters
[new column]
from Marriott and Lynn settlements were
present. Prayer offered by Sister Bicking-
ton. Singing “We thank thee, O God, for
a Prophet.” Sisters Bickington, Baird and
Tracy addressed the meeting. President J.
S. Richards spoke of the faithfulness and
untiring diligence of Sister Snow. Considered
her pattern for us all. She was pleased with
the interest and anxiety manifested by the
sisters to do good. Sister Mitchell from S.
L. City said she appreciated Sister Snow,
had often had the privilege of listening to
her wise counsel and been thereby. blessed
and edified. Further remarks were made
by J. S. Richards and Counselor H. C.
Brown. Sincere feelings of love and respect
for Sister Snow, and blessings on her, were
warmly and generally expressed. Meeting
adjourned for two weeks. Prayer by A. M.
Frodsham.
			____
		WILLARD, Nov. 3, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT.—
	Our Society was organized the 25th of
April 1868, and since that time has been the
means of doing much good, in feeding the
hungry, clothing the poor, and administer-
ing to the sick. Our President, Sister Mary
Ann Hubbard, is a woman full of faith and
good works, and is ably assisted by her
Counselors, Sisters Hellen C. Wood and Mary
Harding. The sisters are united and feel
well, always willing to assist in anything
that is required of them. At a Sewing
Meeting, held on Thursday, Oct. 31st, the
motion was carried to drop the word Female
from the name of the Relief Society. I
pray that the Lord will bless the endeavors
of all in their desire to do good.
			Hannah Cook, Secretary.
				____
	A very brief report from Mrs. Sarah H.
Crosbey, Hebron, Washington Co., shows
that a re-organization of the Relief Society
in that settlement, took place on the 19th
ult., that a working meeting was held on the
2nd inst., and that the Society is a small but
prosperous one.


﻿A Wisconsin man lent his cook a $150
watch to know when to get his dinner, and
hasn’t seen the cook or time-piece since.
	The Washington clergymen are protest-
ing against Sunday funerals, and doctors are
requested to regulate demises accordingly.
	While the population of Russia has in-
creased five fold in the last century and a
half, that of the United States has increased
forty fold.
	A California paper says that during a
recent earthquake in that State a man made
an involuntary exchange of his farm for a
fish pond.
	There are four lady students in Middle-
town College, members of the freshman
class. Three of them had previously been
repulsed at Amherst.
	Mrs. Scott-Siddons, the well known
reader, is thought by some connoisseurs
quite the best living interpreter of charac-
ters in which the elements of tenderness,
pity and woe are conspicuous. She was born
in India, in 1844. Her father died when
she was quite young; then her mother
returned to England, and afterward went to
Germany to educate her two precious
daughters. She first appeared as an ama-
teur actor in a private dramatic entertain-
ment, when only eleven years old, and filled
all who saw her performance with wonder at
her talent and promise. She was trained for
the stage, made her debut in London, in
1867, and gave her first reading in this
country at Newport, in 1868. Since her first
appearance before the public, she has filled
a leading place in the histrionic profession.


