ADVICE TO A YOUNG BROTHER.
				——
	Do not be anxious to leave the dear ones
to whom you are indebted for your mortal
existence, as long as you can earn and ob-
tain a livelihood by clinging to them. There
will be time enough in which you may
learn to do without them, when you can no
longer avoid being thus thrust upon your
own resources. Do not imagine that because
your father is not a rich man and cannot
afford to support you without work, and
send you to the high school, you cannot be-
come educated and wise and great. The
worfd is full of knowledge, and there is no
lack of books and periodicals, which treat on
all the arts and sciences. The gaining of
wisdom is within the reach of all. For God
did not create His children to be drones,
and yet He requires nothing of them that
He does not find means for their obtaining.
Application is all that is necessary to make
a mind bright, reflective and intellectual.
Do not think too much of amassing wealth
and makinga “big show” in the world. Riches
cannot purchase happiness. They may help
to augment it, but are frail supports, liable
to slip away at any moment, and hopes and
aspirations which are built upon them are
in constant danger of being dashed to the
ground. Your safest, surest way of erecting
a defense against misfortune and want is in
learning a useful trade. Do not imagine
that because the hands of a clerk are soft
and white, while yours are hardened with
labor, and sun-burnt, that people of sense or
even good taste admire him and scorn you.
Remember that but for the energies of the
tradesmen, there would be no store-rooms
built, and no goods to store. Honor your
position in society and it will be honorable.
Always treat others with proper respect, and
you will be respectable and respected. Be
temperate in all your habits, and you will
never need to be troubled with doctor’s bills.
Be strictly honest in all you dealings and you
will always find better use for you money
than paying lawyers’ fees. Be virtuous and
industrious, and you will become wealthy
and great. Love God and serve Him, and
you will always be happy.
									L.


