LOVE.
				   —
	I wish that dear word, so expressive and
so real in its beautiful significance, was not 
so much abused by praters who do not un-
derstand, or else do not stop to consider its
true meaning and worth. It is always an-
noying to me to hear love spoken of in a
trifling and heartless manner by the un-
thinking or vicious. Why should they gos- 
sip and laugh over a theme so holy! A great, 
fine, noble looking man—a bachelor—whose
very smile bore indications of disappointed
hopes, decided once that love, like wine,
had become so much adulterated that there
remained nothing genuine about it. It
would have sounded more philosophical, I 
thought, had he said that love, like woman,
had been underestimated so much and so
long that its real value was now rarely, if
ever ascertained and appreciated. The fact
that many people who make and sell wines 
for the sake of the profits they realize from 
so doing, are not honest enough to care any- 
thing abut the quality of the liquor pro- 
duced, only as its price is affected, is no 
proof that if a man grows grapes and makes 
his own wine, he cannot have it as pure 
and sweet as if there were no such thing In
existence as adulterated wine. And because
we do not find the world full of love like
that of home, is no sign that it has ceased to
exist in its true, native,guileless state. “True
love seeks the happiness and welfare of its
object.” It is a pitiable heart that has only 
room in it for one individual, or even a
small circle of near friends and relatives.
The lover of mankind labors for the good of
the human family, and he will never be left
without love, the purest and best, for it 
reigns predominant in his own breast.
									L.


﻿THE PHILOSOPHY Of RAIN.—To under- 
stand the philosophy of this beautiful and
often sublime phenomenon, so often wit-
nessed since the creation of the world, and
so essential to the very existence of plants
and animals, a few facts derived from ob-
servation and a long train of experiments 
must be remembered:
	1.	Were the atmosphere every where at
times of a uniform temperature, we should 
never have rain, or hail, or snow. The wa- 
ter absorbed by it in evaporation from the
sea and earth’s surface, would descend in
an imperceptible vapor, or cease to be ab-
sorbed by the air when it was once fully
saturated.
	2.	The absorbing power of the atmos-
phere, and consequently its capacity to re- 
tain humidity, is proportionately greater in
warm than cold air.
	3.	The air near the surface of the earth
is warmer than it is in the region of the
clouds. The higher we ascend from the 
earth the colder do we find the atmosphere. 
Hence the perpetual snow on very high  
mountains in the hottest climate.
	Now, when, from continued evaporation, 
the air is highly saturated with vapor, 
though it be invisible and the sky cloudless,
f its temperature is suddenly reduced by 
cold currents descending from above, or
rushing from a higher to a lower latitude,
or by the motion of saturated air to a cooler 
latitude, its capacity to retain moisture is 
diminished, clouds are formed, and the re- 
suit is rain. Air condenses as it cools, and, 
like a sponge filled with water and com- 
pressed, pours out the water which its di- 
minished capacity cannot hold. How sing- 
ular, yet how simple, the philosophy of rain! 
What Omniscience could have devised such
an admirable arrangement for watering the 
earth?


