SPLINTERS.
			       —
	A New Zealand woman is accused of hav-
ing poisoned, during her life, three hus-
bands, fifteen children and a lodger......Two
freight trains collided near Newark, N. J.,
on the 15th of October, wrecking several cars
and killing a brakeman......Mark Twain has
been stopping in London with Tom Hood......
A San Francisco correspondent doesn’t think
things will alter much till we have another
flood and commence a new world on a new
principle......The Sunday liquor law is to be
enforced hereafter in Chicago......The Ger-
man Government advises its manufacturers
and exporters to send cloth of the same
quality and at the same prices as that fur-
nishedby England and France, to Japan....The
"turf" lovers of San Francisco are disap-
pointed at the slow time made by “Gold-
smith Maid” and “Occident”......The House
committee of Congress on appropriations is
to meet in Washington in November, to ar-
range the appropriation bills for the next
session of Congress......Five thousand labor-
ers on the steamship docks of Liverpool are
on a strike......An English untrained year-
ling colt sold in London lately for $10,000....
Ice sells for 12 1/2 cents a pound in Texas......
The French navy includes 50 iron-clads......
A national dog show is being organized in
Boston......Kansas City has increased to the
extent of 1,240 houses in two years......
China and Japan have this year absorbed
$26,000,000 of treasure, in adjusting their
balance of trade......Wedding cards are now
issued with the notice, “No plated ware,”
printed in the corner......A Brooklyn justice
recently dismissed the case before him and
discharged all the prisoners, because he was
too drunk to proceed with the business be-
fore the Court......Ex-Secretary Seward’s
estate, bequeathed by will to his sons and a
daughter, is valued at $200,000......“Gold-
smith Maid” trotted a mile in 2:16 3/4, the
best time on record for one mile. Mr. Bon-
ner claims that his horse “Dexter” has
beaten this time in a private trial......Mr. C.
D. Hess, the well-known theatrical manager,
has abandoned the profession and purchased
a vinegar factory in Chicago......All the can-
didates recommended by the combined
Liberal committees in Rome have been
elected......A man at Cannelton, Indiana,
has been granted a divorce from his wife
because she wasn’t as plump as she made
herself appear. Sad news!......Seventeen
Apaches, at Squaw Peak, Arizona, who,
with others, left their Reservation, were
recently killed......An assault on the
colored cadet at the Naval Academy was
followed by a summary expulsion of all
concerned therein......Harvard College has
decided not to admit ladies......Aberdeen,
Scotland, has been flooded by a terrible rain
storm......Co-operative kitchens are being
established by “Alimentary clubs,” in Paris,
on account of the high price of provisions......
Mrs. Dr. Carl Formes joins the army of
women lecturers this season......An insane
man, who was formerly an expert telegraph
operator, escaped from confinement, and his
keepers failed to discover his place of resort
until another operator identified the missing
maniac by his touch on the telegraph key
in a distant city......At a recent public ex-
ecution in Kentucky, no allowance having
been made for the age and debilitated con-
dition of the prisoner, when the drop was
sprung, the head was left suspended in the
rope while the bleeding trunk dropped to
the ground......At Susanville, Lassen Co.,
California, small stones have been washed
out which are pronounced by experts to be
genuine diamonds......Chicago has a petri-
fied baby......During the past Summer,
[new column]
Omineca, British Columbia, has scarcely
had a day without rain......Forty loaves of
bread for $1.00 is the price at Macon, Ga.....
Three thousand millions of dollars, it is
estimated, is the total capital invested in
railroads in the United States......The
Rhine, Marne and Loire have overflowed
their banks......The Deputy Sheriff of New
York lately lost track of Tweed and failed to
find him after an all night’s search......Re-
port says a man in New Albany has fifteen
daughters, but it doesn’t say whether he is
a polygamist or has any sons or not......Bul-
wer Lytton promises the lovers of romance
a now novel.....Macready, the tragedian, is
80......The concluding portion of Tennyson’s
“Arthurian Legends” will shortly be pub-
lished......The Hague Government refuses
shelter to the Jesuits expelled from Prussia
......An ex-Confederate General has joined
the Yale scientific school......The Austrian
Government is said to have prohibited the
sale of the German translation of the life of
James Fisk, Jr......W. W. Corcoran has pre-
sented the city of Washington with Powers’
“Greek Slave”......An Indian outbreak is ap-
prehended in Idaho......Bismarck prohibits
Catholic processions in the Rhenish prov-
inces.


