THE BENEFIT OF WOMAN TO MAN.
			    —
	Did it ever occur to any of our readers
what a refining and polishing influence the
society of woman gives to man? The asso-
ciation with intelligent and educated women
is ever observable in the man. The com-
mon coarseness of many; the bashful awk-
wardness of others; the general tendency of
man to satisfy his passions—are all toned
down and obliterated, when they are con-
tinually brought into the society of women. 
The gentle, kind and insinuating way a
good woman’s influence is thrown about the
rude and reckless man, is always observa-
ble. She seems to reach into his heart with
fingers that very soon weed out every un-
couth and unseemly plant. She does this,
apparently, without an effort; she gives to a
man grace, fluency in conversation, gentle-
ness of manner, complete ease in society and
a love of the arts, sciences and beauties of
nature; she throws about his experience an
atmosphere of love, confidence, hope, trust,
honor, fidelity and virtue! The rough ob-
structions to be met with upon the exterior
of his character are very soon cut away and
the scars healed up from sight. The pro-
cess of change from a vicious, lonly life, to
one of female association and refinement, is
often slow and tedious; but the metamorphic
change is sure to take place under the love, 
judgment and guidance of a true woman. If
there is anything in man that may be called
“metal,” the beneficial influence of woman’s
association will burnish it to such a bright-
ness that its kind and quality can soon be
determined.
	Some coarse and brutish men scoff at the
beneficial influence of woman, but most all
sooner or later are led to feel its power. The
man who can never feel this reclaiming,
purifying power, and has no faith in woman’s
ennobling, elevating influence, is possessed
of a heart poor indeed. We do not wish his
society—we know our business relations
with him cannot be pleasant and compan-
ionable. The low, vicious habits of life are
his, as he has no incentive to be otherwise,
or even wish to elevate his character.—
“Willamette Farmer.”


