				A UTAH LADIES’ JOURNAL.

	The women of Utah to-day occupy a position which
attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and
women everywhere. They are engaged in the prac-
tical solution of some of the greatest social and moral
problems of the age, and a powerful interest is mani-
fested throughout the United States, and, it may be
said, the entire civilized world, to learn from reliable
sources the views honestly entertained by them on
these questions.

	They have been grossly misrepresented through
the press, by active enemies who permit no opportu-
nity to pass of maligning and slandering them; and
with but limited opportunity of appealing to the in-
telligence and candor of their fellow countrymen and
countrywomen in reply.

	Who are so well able to speak for the women of
Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is bet-
ter to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented
by others!"

	For these reasons, and that women may help each
other by the diffusion of knowledge and information
possessed by many and suitable to all, the publica-
tion of Woman’s Exponent, a journal owned by,
controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been
commenced.

	The aim of this journal will be to discuss every
subject interesting and valuable to women. It will
contain a brief and graphic summary of current news
local and general, household hints, educational mat-
ters, articles on  leading topics of interest suitable to its
columns and miscellaneous reading. 

	It will aim to defend the right, inculcate sound
principles, and disseminate useful knowledge.

	Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best
organized benevolent institution of the age; yet, but
little is known of the self-sacrificing labors of these
Societies. In Woman’s Exponent a department
will be devoted to reports of their meetings and other
matters of interest connected with their workings;
and to this end the Presidents and Secretaries of the
various Societies throughout the Territory are re-
quested to furnish communications which will receive
due attention.
	Miss Eliza R Snow, President of the entire Female
Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal,
and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from
her numerous duties.

	Woman’s Exponent will be published semi-
monthly, each number containing eight pages, quarto.
	The following low rates will place it within the
reach of all, and the hope is that it may be made so
valuable that it will be found in every family in
Utah.

	TERMS, Strictly in Advance:
1 Copy one year, $2.00	1 Copy six months, $1.00
10 Copies one year, 18.00	10 Copies six months, 9.00

	No subscription received for less than six months.
	It is earnestly desired that the Bishops, Presidents
of Female Relief Societies and others interested in a
work of this kind, will interest themselves in getting
up clubs; ten copies for the price of nine.

	Address all communications and subscriptions,
Publishers Woman’s Exponent, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


