FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	The first boy mentioned in the Bible—
Chap. I.
	Kittens are superseding lap-dogs for
street-wear.
	Lady ushers are the latest wrinkle for
fashionable weddings in New York.
	The latest medical mania in France is an
almost exclusive diet of water cresses.
	Kellogg’s dresses in “La Traviata” are
magnificent, and were made by Worth.
	Bret Harte’s father was formerly Princi-
pal of the Hudson (New York) Academy.
	Little Raven, the Arapahoe, has a head
ust like Beecher’s and is an eloquent orator.
	The present Czar of Russia is so in-
temperate that his physicians say he cannot
live many months.
	Prince Leopold, Queen Victoria’s young-
est son, will commence a course of study at
Oxford this October term.
	In the long course of his legal practice
Mr. Seward was never known to act for
a man against a woman.
	Froude safely passed those two dreaded
bugaboos of the ocean voyage—Hell’s Gate
and the newspaper interviewer.
	John Parker, who at one time had the
reputation of being the fastest type setter
in Texas, died lately in Huntsville.
	The late Benjamin Abbott of Boston, left;
bequests amounting to over $80,000, of
which $10,000 went to the Universalists.
	Mrs. Joseph Spinney has given $20,000
for the construction of a Methodist chapel
at Great Neck, L. I., and $10,000 for its
maintenance.
	Ex-Governor Magoffin, of Kentucky, has
discovered and entered as Government land
an island in Lake Superior, containing about
1,200 acres of good land.
	Mrs. Partington has been reading the
health officers’ weekly reports, and thinks
“total” must be an awful malignant disease,
since as many die of it as of all the rest put
together.
	Horace B. Claflin, the New York dry
goods prince, once insisted on paying $50,000
revenue tax in addition to the regular
assessment, believing that amount was
honestly due the Government.
	Mrs. Chapman and Mrs. Chassellette,
widows of the engineer and fireman who
were killed on the Erie Railway by the
negligence of the train dispatcher in tele-
graphing, have each recovered over $5,000
damages against the Erie Railway.
	Thiers ordinarily dresses in a suit of
black broadcloth, frock coat and decidedly
ancient trousers. He wears an old-fash-
ioned New England high shirt collar, and
invariably carries an umbrella or cane, upon
which he leans while shuffling along the
boulevard.	
	At a trades’ meeting the following toast
was given: “The printer—he beats the
farmer with his hoe, the carpenter with his
rule, the mason in setting up columns; he
surpasses the lawyer and doctor in attend-
ing cases, and beats the parson in the
management of the devil.”
	Cleopatra’s Needle is to be removed from
Alexandria to London. This obelisk origin-
ally stood at Heliopolis, and was brought
down to Alexandria by one of the Caesars
and was, in 1852, presented by Mohammed
Ali to the British Government. It is seventy
feet high, and at the base is seven feet
seven inches in diameter.


﻿KING SMITH.—A notable personage has just 
died—Mr. Augustus Smith, King of the Scilly
Islands, of which there are 140, although
only six are inhabited. Mr. Smith was a 
wealthy and crotchety Englishman, who 
in regard to government had notions of his
own which he wished to carry into practice, 
and so he became lessee of the Scilly Islands, 
under the County of Cornwall. He thus be- 
came king of about two thousand subjects, 
most of whom were a wretched lot of
peasants, for the islands are poor and unfruit-
ful. With a court of twelve men he ruled
the land, readjusted the relations of land and
people, and attended generally to their moral,
social, and religious status, although in the 
latter item he was not very strict.


