EDITORIAL NOTES.
				—
	ln Burlington, Iowa, the street lights
are extinguished at 10 o'clock. It is pre-
sumable that the people there are temperate
and moral.
	After the horses, first came the
chickens and then the hogs, as sufferers by
the epidemic among the animals first named.
Will man come next?
	The fair famed English poetess, Eliza
Cook, is reported ill beyond recovery. Does
she still cling to the “Old Armed Chair” of
which she has so sweetly sung?
	From present indications the coming
winter will be a hard one. Some time ago
work on the Nothern Pacific R. R,. had to be
suspended in consequnce of the severity of
the weather.
	Pioche is anxious for the railroad track
to be extended form the terminus of the
Utah Southern to Bullionville, that the
coal mines of Kanarra may be bound to the
silver mines of Pioche
	A Pennsylvania woman lately sold her
two weeks’ old baby for $10, but wanted it
back soon after, because another party had
offered $25 for it. Some people have
curious ways of making money.
	The last present ever received by Abra-
ham Lincoln, an elegant family Bible given
him by the colored people of the South, has
just been presented by Mrs. Lincoln to Rev.
Dr. Miner of Belvedere, Illinois.
	Fires and storms on land and sea, inun-
dations and general devastation, reports
of which daily crowd the telepraphic columns
of the newspapers, seem indicative of a
universal crisis in some direction, at no
distant period.
	A friend announces that the whole world
is apparently on the point of committing
suicide, but what with its present intemper-
ance, insubordination, insolvency and gen-
eral inconsistencies it might philosophically
be considered as being already in the very
act.
	In Marseilles, France, a jury recently
acquitted a beautiful young brunette for the
crime of assassinating her lover for refusing
to purchase a gold watch to which she took
a fancy. Another decided case ol insanity;
for if the murderess was “compos mentis”
the jury certainly not.
	Boston’s relief fund, for the sufferers
by its great fire, has reached about two
hundred thousand dollars. Wealth has not
made the Bostonian heart altogether hard,
nor frozen up its fountains of charity; or
else the great conflagration has softened
the one and thawed out the other.
	Scotland seems to be highly favored
with visits from distinguished people this
year. The Queen and the Prince and
Princess of Wales are there; The French
Empress and the Prince Imperial but lately
left; Gladstone and John Bright have gone
there; Stanley has been there; and Lowell
is somewhere in that part of the Globe.
	Cooper told of the “last of the Mohicans”
years ago, but it appears that about 100 of
the tribe still survive and have been in-
vested with the rights of citizenship by the
[new column]
Legislature of Connecticut; and that they
are as industrious and well informed as any
of their white neighbors. America may
yet be proud of her aborigines.
	Senator Sumner has returned from
Europe, and on Wednesday last he met
Senator Henry Wilson, the newly elected
Vice-President, in the office of the New
York “Tribune,” the two greeting each
other cordially. Thus the political hatchet,
it appears, is being buried by the “Tri-
bune,” and the rival factions of Republicans.
	Mrs. Greeley, formerly Miss Mary G.
Cheney, whose death lately occurred at the
residence of Alvin Johnson, in New York,
is said to have been a lady of highly culti-
vated intellect, taste and social attainments.
True sympathizers will condole more with
the old Chappaqua Farmer on her loss than
upon any political disappointment which he
has lately sustained.
	Diamonds and other precious stones are
becoming so plenty, or so plentifully talked
of, in this western region, that we do not
wonder at mothers when referring to their
babies, speaking of eyes like diamonds, and
lips like rubies. It is to be feared that some
of the investors in diamond expeditions,
may have reason to look blue as sapphires
before their experience is ended.
	A political crisis in France, more in-
surrection in Spain, Rome threatened with
radical uprisings, trouble in Prussia between
the Emperor and the national Diet; with
every leading nation, including our own,
talking of strengthening its powers of offense
and defense. These are the evidences of
“peace” which the civilized world presents,
and of which there has lately been so much
vaunting.
	On Wednesday, Nov. 20, Boston sufferd
loss by another large fire, although it was
small compared with the great conflagration
which so short a time before had preceded
it. The total loss reached nearly $350,000;
and the large printing establishment of
Rand & Avery was destroyed, with the
December number of “Old and New,” one
issue of “Littell’s Living Age” and other
periodicals.
	A Sensational New York paper reported
recently that Greeley was insane, and the
story was telegraphed over the country. If
Greeley is crazy, who in New York is wise?
He suffered deeply in feelings and endured
much loss of sleep during the last illness
and death of his beloved wife—prostrating
him for a time—but he is likely to live and
prove himself much more sane than those
who gave currency to such a tale.
	The Woodhull and Claflin sisters have
been saying and publishing fearful things
about Henry Ward Beecher, Mrs. Theodore
Tilton, and New York “society” generally.
They were arrested, lodged in jail on the
charge of publishing “obscene literature,”
and also held on a charge of libel against one
Challis, a New York banker or broker. If
one tenth part of what they charge—and
they defend much of it—be true, then the
corruption of “Gotham” is something terri-
ble to think of.
	Miss Kate Janaway is the daughter of
an ex-Mayor of Memphis, Tennessee, but
she has learned that woman’s accomplish-
[new column]
ments should include more than a little
piano and a large amount of fashion and
novel reading. She caried off premiums at
the late Agricultural Fair for roast beef,
plum pudding, and her style of preparing a
variety of vegetables; enough to give her
the claim to be considered the best cook in
Tennessee. And she received twenty-five
offers of marriage on the spot! How much of
romance, and how much of prosaic Common
Sense were in those offers?
	Henry Berge, “the guardian angel and
the patron saint of the bestial race,” stand-
ing at the junction of Third and Fourth
avenues, at the Cooper Institute, New York,
during the horse distemper, displayed his
professional shield, and in the name of the
august Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, ordered men to cease driving
their gasping horses. And being reinforced
by the police he carried the day. Good for
Henry. But what kind of beings must
they have been who had to be compelled to
unhiteh their sick and panting beasts?
	We clip the following from the Wash-
ington “Star” of November 20, where it
appeared under the heading “Hero and
Heroine,” without further comment: “Syl-
vester Frambes, of Tippecanoe, Spencer
county, Ind., was drawn into a sugar crusher
and had his arm crushed to tbe shoulder one
day last week. His wife came to his assist-
ance, and when she had released him by
backing the horse she fainted away. With
great nerve and endurance he carried her to
the house on his uninjured arm, and re-
stored her to consciousness, when she went
for a surgeon, who disjointed the arm at
the shoulder. He will probably recover.”
	Vermont does not believe that capital
punishment is “legal murder,” as some “ad-
vanced minds” term it. The Legislature
of that State, by a large majority, has re-
fused to abolish the death penality. That
whiich is needed to repress alarming and
heinous crimes throughout the country, is
not abolishing of capital punishment, nor
the passage of severer statutes; but the due
honoring of wise and just statutes and their
rigid enforcement. But while men can kill
with impunity, and gloat over their deeds
of blood, and can be rescued from the
clutches of the law,unharmed and un-
punished, by influence or money, what will
bad men care whether such a penalty
remains upon the statute books of States or
is formally abolished.
	Another paragraph on this page refers
to the story that Horace Greeley had gone
insane, refusing to credit it, and looking
forward to a length of life for him. Later
reports confirm the belief in his sanity, but
destroy the hope of his prolonged life. The
great editor is gone. He died on Friday
evening, 29th ult., at ten minutes to seven
o’clock, nearly sixty-two years of age. The
cause of his death was virtually sleepless-
ness. He could not sleep, after the exertion
and exhaustion consequent upon the death
of his wife, and the strain upon him during
the Presidential campaign; and in about four
weeks after she was carried to the grave,
his spirit passed from earth, the sleepless-
ness having turned to inflamation of the
brain. And so another great and wise man
has fallen!


