						 A MOTHER.


[For the EXPONENT.
	CO-OPERATIVE AMENDMENTS.
				 —
	How absurd and ridiculous the ideas
advanced by some of our Woman Suffragists
are! For instance, says one "woman’s-
rights”-man, speaking of woman: "She has
been continually anathematized and tor-
mented with the idea that she is the ‘weaker
vessel.’ Her father, brother and husband
have always told her that her mind was
weak and small, and that she could not com-
prehend great things, nor do great works.
Sometimes, her mother and sister are joined
in this wholesale slander of the female mind.
When a little girl she has been paralyzed
with the thought of her inferiority. *  *  * 
How could woman be anything with the
whole world against her?” As though
woman has never been anything! Woman
is to a large extent responsible for this “per-
secution" and “oppression" to which she
has been subjected by men. She has been
too willing to have something to lean on,
some one to look up to, and to do the conse-
quential parts in providing for herself and
her offspring. But has she been nothing


and done nothing for the world? Is it
nothing to have been the-mother of all the
great men and women? I think it is con-
siderable in woman’s favor. And I also
think that it is right for her to improve and
elevate her condition in every legitimate
way, and thus become a nobler and wiser
mother of purer and better beings. In
making these amendments, every sensible
and good man will, I am convinced, assist
and encourage her, and glory in her earnest
and spirited resolutions. There is no true
man but what has the highest appreciation
of her merits or .that ..would not sacrifice
more for her welfare and happiness than he
would for his own.
								INEZ.


﻿For the EXPONENT
	WHY BLAME THE GIRLS?
			  —
	Is it fair to accuse all young ladies with
the follies and nonsense of indulging in the
false pride and vain imaginings which
characterize the great portion of society at
the present day, and still hourly increase?
A short time since, a worthy gentleman
remarked something like the following:—
“If a young man would like to marry a girl,
he dare not tell her of it; for when a girl
gets married now-a-days, she wants a piano,
a Brussels carpet and furniture to match, a
horse and buggy, thinks she must dress in
the nicest style, and have two hired girls to
wait on her." These suggestions are closely
applicable to a large majority of our girls, it
is true, but there are exceptions; and what
is more, the other side of the picture was
not drawn. Yet no one who is at all
acquainted with the present condition of
society, could justly condemn the following
portrait as being incorrect, so far as it ex-
tends:  If a young lady is asked to marry,
she dare not say “yes,” for a young man
now-a-days can scarcely be met in any-
position in society but he has a cigar in his
mouth, his face is flushed with wine, and to
judge from his manner of deportment, he
considers himself superior in every sense of
the word to most people, and would not
marry a girl whom he thought inferior in
the least respect to any one but himself.
What reasonable girl feels herself capable of
filling the position of wife satisfactorily to
such a being, even if she did not shrink
from his habits of intemperance? Let the
young men reform and see if the girls will
not be on hand to assist them.
