BEECHER ON WOMAN SUFFRAGE.
				  —
	We can see no necessity for going back
to “an ancient Semitic nation and a king
who had seven hundred wives,” to deter-
mine the question of woman’s rights. Ask
some men of the present age, good, noble,
honest, temperate and intelligent men,
with two, five or ten wives each, and they
will answer that woman should not only be
granted suffrage but should be free to avail
herself of every advantage which men have
for gaining useful knowledge. One of their
mottoes is “educate the mothers, elevate her
children.” The following ideas are sound
and correct, and it is a pity that all men do
not think with Beecher on the subject in
question:
	People fear the effect upon the family if
women should vote and think. They think
that the tenderness and sweetness of the
family relation has something to do with
weakness. It has much to do with fineness,
but not with weakness. It is not the fact of
woman’s looking up to man that pleases
him—it is that in her that looks up. We
know what Solomon said of woman without
thought and without judgment, and he
surely ought to know—he had seven hun-
dred wives. If the question of Woman’s
rights is to be determined by quoting the
Old Testament, I have but a word to say: It
is the last question which ought to be de-
cided for us by an ancient Semitic nation
and a king who had seven hundred wives.
A greater freedom for woman will not unsex
her. That is the very fear that the Orient-
als everywhere have to-day, and you laugh
at them. Once, in Athens, no woman could
learn literature, eloquence or philosophy
unless she were a courtesan. The virtuous
mother and wife were denied these refine-
ments, this knowledge, which were thus
made the insignia of unvirtue. Since then,
woman has steadily progressed through the
centuries, until now she is a leader in litera-
ture, foremost among artists. Has litera-
ture, art and philosophy made her less fit
for a wife and mother? Does it take away
taste and destroy refinement to ponder
deeply? Make mothers more and you make
their children more. You will not make
them coarse by giving them power. Is God
coarse because he is infinite? That which
the family needs more than anything else Is
a higher state of womanly development.


A LADY of San Francisco, named Mrs.
Chloe Shorey, is making a silk quilt, which
is to contain upwards of 17,000 pieces. The
same lady won a prize at a State Fair in
Vermont for the superior beauty and artistic
skill displayed in a quilt which contained up-
wards of 20,000 pieces, some years ago when
a resident of that State.


