WOMAN’S AIMS.
				     —
	“Our aims have' been too low we; must
improve them.”
	It is argued by some that we need incen-
tives. We need our eyes opened and our
understandings quickened to make us com-
prehend the incentives which we have al-
ways had, to induce us to educate ourselves.
Should not the knowledge that by so doing
we not only benefit ourselves, but improve
society and expand and elevate the nature
of future generations, be a sufficient incite-
ment to energy and perseverance?
	Too many gay, thoughtless young women,
who have abundance of time and talent,
were they but properly applied, to make of
themselves some of the brightest ornaments
of society, give their attention to nothing
but fashionable nonsense and vanity. Many
a superb form and lovely face seem to be
considered by their possessor to have been
bestowed upon her for no other purpose than
for making conquests and gaining a good
match. Many a fine, sweet voice exerts its
power only for the attraction of a set of
trifling, worthless admirers and flatterers.
What have our mothers been about! Why
have we not been taught to couple goodness
and intelligence with all these beautiful
gifts, these priceless endowments with which
God has blessed us, that the influence and
power we hold might be something worth!
Why do fathers, brothers, husbands and
lovers indulge and encourage inconsisten-
cies in dress and indolence, and yet exclaim
against them and against women as their
inventors! Why do they not lift us up, or
rather allow us to climb for ourselves? for it
is quite impossible for them to teach us
what we are not inclined to learn, but they
might assist and cheer us on when they see
us trying to improve our aims, instead of
seeking to decoy us back into the old chan-
nel of idleness and ignorance, by flattering
vanity and encouraging useless pastime.
Were there no future upon which to base
our aims, the satisfaction there is to be found
in deep thought and earnest study, in gain-
ing wisdom and cultivating intelligence, is
far greater than any enjoyment realized in
air castle-building.


﻿DANIEL BOON's sister Hannah is living in
Caldwell County, North Carolina. She is 85
years old.


