F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.

	Sister Amelia M. Frodsham writes from
Ogden under date Nov. 22:
	We have been having severely cold
weather, still a few of the sisters met in the
capacity of a meeting on the coldest day we
have had There is a lively interest taken
in the Society, and great desire to do good
is manifested in caring for the poor. This
work is one of grave interest to me, and I
feel that much good may be accomplished
through the Exponent. The sisters need
not be idle, and think they have no mission
to perform, for even that of wife and mother
is, to me, a vast and noble one. Yet in
connection with these cares, we can find
time to speak words of kindness and com-
fort to those who are cast down, administer
to the wants of the poor, and visit the sick.
My prayer is that God will open the hearts
of those who have means to give to those who
have not, and both will receive a blessing.
I believe when people do good deeds their
own consciences reward them for it.

	On Saturday, Nov. 23, at the general Re-
trenchment Meeting, which is held Semi-
monthly in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, President Mrs. Isabella Horn ex-
pressed a great desire to witness a revival
among the sisters; that they might become
more united in faith, and also in the extend-
ing and promulgating of every wise and
beneficial principle. And for this cause, she
hoped that the meetings would be well
attended during the coming winter. Com-
ing together and holding converse in an
intelligent manner, upon topics of interest,
serves to enlighten, refine and elevate the
mental faculties; and the more there are
who associate thus together, the broader will
be the current of intellectual improvement.
The house could be made warm and com-
fortable, would accommodate a goodly
number, and she desired to see it well filled
every meeting day. A number of the sisters
made short but pithy remarks.
	Physiology was chosen for the subject to
be considered at the next meeting.

				Brigham City, Nov. 20. 1872,
Editor Woman's Exponent.—
	At a recent meeting of our society a
motion to have the word “Female” dropped
from the name, according to sister Eliza R.
Snow’s suggestion, was carred by a unani-
mous vote.	
				Harriet A. Snow. President.
[next column]
				Kamas Prairie, Nov. 24, 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	At a meetiug held iu this place, Nov.
15th, Sister Ann Harder presiding, it was
moved, seconded and carried unanimously
that the word “Female” be dropped from
the name of the Society, in accordance with
the suggestion of Sister Eliza R. Snow and
others of our faithful sisters in the Relief
Societies. Some satisfaction was expressed
at the change, for we had long considered
the canceled word unnecessary to the signi-
fication of the appellation. The Exponent
was warmly advocated by the President,
and several of the sisters. We felt to
endorse the sentiment so ably expressed on
the last page of your valuable publication:
“It is better to represent ourselves than to
be misrepresented by others.” We have
been misrepresented for so long a time that
some may consider it not worth our while to
speak for ourselves, and in defense of the
truth at this late hour. But we may at least
assert our right to utter our own opinions,
belief and knowledge. For since the
glorious Gospel of the Son of God has made
us free, we are free indeed, and seek to
honor the God whom we revere, and trust
in Him who is the Rock of our Salvation.
				Mrs. Phebe Young,
						Ass’t Secretary.

			Alpine City, Nov. 21st, 1872.
Editor Exponent:—At our last meeting a
vote was carried unanimously in favor of
dispensing with the word “Female” as an
unnecessary prefix to the name of the
Society. The sisters feel well and are on
hand to do their duty as Saints.
	We have a hundred-dollar share in the
woolen factory at Provo, a twenty-five
dollar share in our Co-operative store, have
donated twenty-five dollars to help gather
the Saints, and made other collections to be
used for the benefit of the poor, to the
amount of sixty dollars. We try to give,
and take, lessons of economy.
	I have been a member of this church for
thirty years, and have never seen a time
when the truths of the Gospel were so en-
couraging as at present. The Lord said he
would choose the weak things of this world
to confound the wise. This is being fulfilled;
and the wisdom of God is greater than that
of man.
					Margaret McCullough.

				Santaquin, Nov. 19th, 1872.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	I forward a brief report to you, of our last
monthly meeting, held on the 7th inst., at
which a vote was taken to omit the word
“Female” from the name of the Society, as
suggested, which was unanimous. Presi-
dent Mrs. E. J. Stickney, who had just
returned from a visit to Salt Lake City,
made some excellent and very cheering
remarks. Several highly commendable
articles were read from the Exponent,
which we value very much; and meeting
adjourned until the first Monday in Decem-
ber. Benediction by Counselor Mrs. Green-
halch,
				Julia Wilson, Secretary.


﻿The will of the late Mrs. Arabella Rice,
of Portsmouth, N. H., who is said to have
been the wealthiest lady in the State, dis-
poses of about $200,000 in legacies; among
those of a public nature being $30,000 to the
town of Kittery for a public library, $20,000
to the State Asylum for the insane, and
$3,000 each, to the Portsmouth Atheneum
and Unitarian Church.
	Seventy thousand Angora goats leap
from precipice to precipice in California.


