GRAINS OF GOLD.
			      —
	LOVE is to the moral nature what the sun
is to the earth.—Balzac.
	ONE of the best remedies for the ills of
life is to have so much noble occupation as
to forget them.
	ONE may live as a conquerer, a king, or a
magistrate; but he must die as a man—no
discount on that.
	BASE all your actions upon a principle of
right; preserve your integrity of character,
and in doing this never reckon the cost.
	THE nerve which never relaxes, the eye
which never blanches, the thought which
never wanders—these are the masters of
victory.
	MEN are often capable of greater things
than they perform; they are sent into the
world with bills of credit, and seldom draw
to their full extent.
	THE following sentiment, given at a rail-
way festival, shows the heart of a true man:
“Our mothers—the only faithful tenders
who never misplace a switch.”
	COURAGE and modesty are virtues which
every sort of society reveres, because they
are virtues which cannot be counterfeited;
also they are known by the same hue.
	TRUE courage is cool and calm. The
bravest of men have the least of brutal,
bullying insolence, and in the very time of
danger are found the most serene and free.
	THE hardest thing in the world for a little
man to learn is that people don’t give them-
selves the trouble to think abou this littleness.
This is equally true in its moral application, 
	I FEEL that I am growing old for want of
somebody to tell me that I am looking as
young as ever. Charming falsehood! There
is a vast deal of vital air In loving words.—
Lander.
	THOSE who retire from the world on ac-
count of its sins and peskiness, must not
forget that they have yet to keep company
with a person who wants just as much
watching as anybody else. 
	WHEN a man thinks that nobody cares
for him, and that he is alone in a cold and
selfish world, he would do well to ask him-
self what he has done to make anybody care
for and to love him. And a woman has a
perfect right to do the same.
	FOR your own, as well as for your child-
ren’s sake, learn to speak low. They will
remember that tone when your head is un-
der the willows. So, too, will they remem-
ber a harsh and angry tone. Which legacy
will you leave your children?
	IT is noble and a great thing to cover the
blemishes and to excuse the faults and fail-
ings of a friend; to draw a curtain before
his stains, and to display his perfections; to
bury his weakness in silence, but to pro-
claim his virtues on the housetop.
	IT is not work that kills men; it is worry.
Work is healthy: you can hardly put more
upon a man than he can bear. Worry is
rust upon the blade. It is not the revolu-
tion that destroys the machinery, but the
friction. Fear secretes acids; but love and
trust are sweet juices.—Beechea.
	IF we work upon marble, it will perish;
if we work upon brass, time will effect it; if
we rear temples, they will crumble into dust;
but if we work upon the immortal minds—if
we imbue them with principles, with the
just fear of God and our fellow men—we en-
grave on those tabletssomething which will
brighten to all eternity.


﻿The Woman’s Club House in New York
will be ready for occupancy this Winter.


