FACTS AND FIGURES.
				 —
	Ohio produced 9,072,063 pounds of cheese
last year.
	Miss Gilbert is trying to put a library in
the St. Louis jail.
	A Church organ atSchuylerville, New
York, is run by water.
	Women fill the clerkships in the Stock-
holm banks. They are not given to embez-
zlements.
	Mrs. Louisa W. Foss is a new candidate
for the honors of the elocutionary rostrum.
	Metz has lost a third of its population by
emigration since the German occupation.
	Thomas Ansbro has been convicted of
libel against Edith O’Gorman “the escaped
nun.”
	The Marquis of Bute has sent a collection
of minerals from Wales for the American
Exhibition in 1876.
	The widow of Mark Lemon, late editor of
“Punch,” has received a pension of L100
from the British Government.
	The Duke of Genoa, nephew of the King
of Italy, is about to undertake a voyage
around the world.
	San Francisco rejoices in a railroad ring,
a mining ring, a wheat ring, a whisky ring
and a real estate ring.
	A ring of land grabbers at East Saginaw
expects to make $2,000,000 in stealing the
lands of tbe Chippewa Indians.
	Anna Dickinson has two new lectures
ready, one on the woman question, the other
on the labor question.
	Hanna Matilda Dodd, deceased, gives
$1,000 to be expended in medals for the
best girl graduates of the Boston High
School.
	There is another case for Darwin near
Vancouver. A man residing near there
recently broke a fresh egg, and found there-
in a snake three inches long.
	Since the great fire six hundred and
thirty-seven buildings have been erected in
Chicago, at an estimated cost of $40,000,000.
One looking upon the re-built city can
scarcely trace the effects of the fire.
	The divorces granted last year in Con-
necticut numbered 409, being one more
than the previous year; while the marriages
numbered 26 less than the year previous
In more than two-thirds of the cases the
wife was the petitioner.
	An immense Bunsen battery is being
constructed at the Holy Cross College, Wor-
cester, Mass., which when complete, will
be powerful enough to illuminate the whole
with the electric light.
	Some figures given by the Boston “Adver-
tiser” show the profits of the manufacturers of
that State to be $102,000,000 in 1870, or
about $68 per capita to the population. The
wages paid amounted to $18,000,000 which
to those employed in the factories, was equiv-
alent to $421 each.


﻿A ROMANTIC story is told of how, during
the bombardment of Paris, a gallant French
captain, Legrand by name, undertook to bear
dispatches into the besieged city, by swim-
ming across the Seine; how he failed in his
mission, his fate remaining a mystery for
many months; and how, very recently,
there was fished up from the bottom of the
river, a skeleton, accoutred in uniform, and
clutching a water-proof satchel containing
the missing dispatches. A funeral with
military honors, and an imposing monument
in Pere-la-Chaise follow as things of course.


