F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.

		 HYRUM, Cache County, Utah,
					October 9th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The Female Relief Society of this Ward
was organized nearly four years ago, and 
since that time we have accomplished much 
good. Our Society is in a healthy condi-
tion; we have endeavored to do all in our
power to comfort and bless the poor, the
widow, the fatherless and the sick; thus as-
sisting our Bishop and Teachers in some of
their labors. In addition to this we have 
sent ninety dollars to assist in gathering the
poor, and have given forty dollars to aid our
Sunday School in purchasing a library and
rewards. In connection with this Society
there is a Young Ladies' Retrenchment As-
sociation. We have a braiding school and
make straw hats in Summer.
	Although the outside world may number
us with the "poor, oppresse women of
Utah," we experience great pleasure in say-
ing, we have lived in the States and in the
old world, but prefer living in, and enjoy-
ing the glorious liberties of Utah and her
"Mormon" institutions, and in seeking to 
fill woman's mission as wives, mothers and
daughters, aiding suffering humanity
wherever found.
	"The widow's heart shall share our joy,
		The orphan and oppressed
	Shall see we love the sweet employ
		To succor the distressed,"
And thus maintain woman's legitimate
rights.
		CHRISTINA LILJENQUIST, President,
		MARTHA WARD,
		LUCY WILSON;	Counselors.
			HARRISVILLE, Oct. 12th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	We send you a brief notice relative to the
advancement and progress of the F.R.
[new column]
Society of Harrisville, Weber County, which
was re-organized the 31st of March last, as
follows: Melissa A. Shurtliff, President;
Sarah J. Taylor and Nancy Rawson, Coun-
selors; Mary E. Taylor, Secretary, and
Louise Harris, Treasurer. We meet semi-
monthly, and our meetings are well attended.
Peace and good order prevail.  All seem
willing and anxious to do all they can to ad-
vance the welfare and objects of the Society,
which is small; but we have added $54 75
to its funds since the re-organization. We
receive and read the Exponent, and feel
much interested in the matter therein con-
tained.
			MELISSA A. SHURTLIFF, President.
			MARY E. TAYLOR, Secretary.
					—
				SPRINGVILLE, Oct. 12th, 1872.
	A celebration in honor of the organization
of the F. R. Society of Springville, which
was organized June 7th, 1868, was held in
the meeting House of this place, September
2th, 1872, the President of the Society,
Mrs. Cynthia Clyde, presiding.
	The choir sang pieces selected for the
occasion. The Financial report read by Mrs.
Hannah Carter, Secretary, showed that since
the organization $1,387 20 had been re-
ceived in donations, profits on labor, &c.
Disbursed to the poor, $672 68; paid to the
Provo Factory, on shares for the benefit of
the Society, $188 43; paid to the P. E. Fund,
$30; donated to the building of the Temple,
$305 70; donated for public purposes, $174.-
50.
	Addresses made by Bishop Bringhurst
and some of the Sisters, were instructing
and encouraging; and were followed by a
dialogue entitled “A Sewing Circle,”, by
twelve young ladies and one gentleman.
Songs, Recitations, Toasts, &c., followed.
			HANNAH CARTER, Secretary.


