A YOUNG LADY’S THOUGHTS.
					—
	The following is an extract from a private
letter, written by one young lady to another,
and courteously handed to us for publication:
							Nov. 1, 1872.
	You have been in my thoughts all the
morning, and I have been wondering
whether you would think of a year ago to-
day, or not. It was just another such a
morning as this—bright and clear and sunny
and beautiful. I called on you at an early
hour that morning—I recollect the date
because I have rarely in my life enjoyed
any little circumstance as I did that health-
ful, happy walk. I wanted you to go for a
run on the hill with me, but—let me tell
you how you were employed when I entered
the house:	Mixing bread and	making
preparations to wash. You couldn’t go, so
excused yourself. You know I was just
home after a month’s visit to——, and I
could not help contrasting your position
with that of some of our pretty belle butter-
tlies, who, I knew, were not out of bed by
that hour, and who, when they did rise
would spend all that delightful morning
shut in from the beautiful, glorious sunshine,
dressing and powdering, preparing to receive
or make fashionable calls. How I appre-
ciated you and your real worth, then! There,
too, was your big brother in his little shop,
measuring and planing and hammering
away, and looking so good natured and con-
tented, that I thought, at the moment, any


one who would not put up such an honest
tradesman, in any case of importance,
against a dozen of worthless, polished city
puffs, who get their living—no matter how,
would be badly cheated.
	How thankful we should be, my dear
friend, that our mothers have been wise
enough to show us the importance and the
dignity of labor! They have not taught us,
either, that physical strength, its culture
and development, is all that is worthy of
attention, as some coarse-minded people
seem to believe. But that the powers of
thought and reason, the immortal mind,
must also be carefully regarded; to cultivate
order, polite manners without affectation,
neatness, sweet temper, a love for the
beautiful in nature and in art, and respect
and reverence for all things pure and good.
Your mother and my mother have taught
us these principles, and if we do not employ
and enjoy them, the fault is ours and not
theirs.
	There are few mothers like ours. God
bless them and bless the poor, old world with
many such in future. 	  *	  *
