HOME AFFAIRS.
					   —
	THE SAD occurrence of the drowning of the
little son of Mr. L. P. Borg, in the 3rd Ward of
this city, on the 21st ult., should be another
forcible warning against carelessness, and neg-
ligence in leaving wells or other places with
the possibilities of accidents to children.
	ON FRIDAY, the 18th ult., Mrs. Bower, a
milliner of this city, committed suicide by tak-
ing laudanum, the terrible act being prompted,
it is said, by domestic unhappiness. The very
worst way to meet an existing evil, which may
be a cause of sorrow, is to rush unbidden into
eternity.
	ANY ONE who visited the Matinee on the af-
ternoon of the 21st ult., when the excursionists
from Utah county were present, could not fail
of being impressed with a sense of what virtue
and temperance can and do produce. It was a
fair representation of a little portion of the
growing strength of Israel.
	PROFESSOR DUE'S brilliant display of fire
works, given on the evening of the 24th ult., on
the Museum grounds, was a source of general


satisfaction and gratification to every one who
witnessed it. The music was good, and the
splendor of the different colored, spangling,
sporting flames, as they darted heavenward, or
whirled in rapid evolutions, was delightfully
entertaining.
	THE EFFORTS which are being made by the
Superintendents and Teachers of Sabbath and
day schools to enhance the interest of the
young of our Territory in obtaining useful
knowledge, in order that they may themselves
become useful in society, is praiseworthy and
should be continued and increased as rapidly as
wisdom and opportunities will admit; and be
aided by parents and all who are interested in
the welfare and cultivation of the growing
generation.	
	ON WEDNESDAY afternoon, 23rd ult., as Seth
Loveland, son of Colonel Chester Loveland, of
Brigham City, was returning home from Cor-
inne in a wagon, with two young ladies, one of
the ladies, who was driving the team, dropped the
reins, which Mr. Loveland attempted to regain
by reaching over the front of the wagon. He
fell, and the wheels passed over his body in-
flicting injuries so severe that he died the next
morning. The sad event has called forth many
sincere expressions of sympathy for the family,
and of regret that a fine young man should be
thus suddenly and terribly deprived of life.
	ANOTHER RAILROAD has been commenced in
Utah. The Utah Central has been a great suc-
cess, fully verifying the expectations of its
projector, President B. Young. The Utah
Southern and Utah Northern are both making
progress towards bringing the remote parts of
the Territory into railroad communication. The
American Fork line, as a feeder to the Utah
Southern, is now in operation up the canyon
nearly to Deer Creek, with its terminus at
Lehi; and a week ago ground was broken for
another branch road from the Utah Southern
to Bingham Canyon, connecting with the main
line at Sandy Station. No portion of the West
is making greater strides in desirable progress
than Utah; and yet,where would all the wonder-
ful development of the great West have been,
had it not been for the handful of Pioneers who,
a quarter of a century ago, traveled in faith,
and forced their way to the successful coloniza-
tion of these valleys?


