EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A wide room—room for improvement.
	Miss Loud is giving loud lectures on
“Woman Suffrage” in Massachusetts.
	A dangerous malady among horses has
spread with dreadful rapidity and melan-
choly results throughout the country.
	The Relief Society in Portland, Oregon,
has erected a “House” for homeless unfortu-
nates; an example worthy of notice and
imitation.
	Another terrible disaster, the burning
of the “Missouri” at sea, is recorded with
fearful pictures of suffering and death. The
accident occurred twenty-five miles from
Abaco, on the 22nd of October.
	It is estimated that about nine-tenths of
the people of Vienna live altogether in cafes
and restaurants. How will children thus
reared ever know the blessings which rests
in the memory of a “Sweet Home!”
	For the first time in the history of
American politics, women voted for Presi-
dent at the late Presidential election, and in
two or three places their votes were received,
while in others they were rejected. The
world moves.
	The next Congress will be more com-
pletely Republican in its character than any
that has met in Washington for some years.
Will it verify the hopes of Woman Suf-
ragists, and give woman suffrage to the
country? Time will tell.
	An effort is being made in France to
take the public schools out of clerical hands,
on account of the atrocious scandals concern-
ing the behavior of certain Fathers. The
marriage of Pere Hyacinthe seems to have
augmented the cause of discussion.
	James C. Crittenden, son of the late A.
P. Crittenden, is reported to have deter-
mined that Mrs. Fair should not remain in
San Francisco, after the result of the trial;
and to have been prevented from shooting
her by Mr. Tyler. He was doubtless,
“insane."
	An appropriation of $50,000 worth of
land has been made, for the establishment
of a Professorship, to be known as the
“Agassiz Professorship of Oriental Lan-
guages and Literature,” and to belong to
the University of California. The gift is
from Senator Tomkins, and is well applied.
	Miss Stride of London, has been striding
through the byways of that great City, in
the noble and highly laudable pursuit of
picking up and careing for, thus bringing
back to light and hope, poor, sorrow-stricken,
castaways, three hundred and seventy-five
of whom she has been the means of having
housed, clothed and fed, nursed and won
back to new, bright life and faith. This,
indeed, is true philanthropy.
	A man and woman in Scotland wishing
to be married and not having the requisite
funds to pay a minister, took each a handful
of meal, knelt down before a basin of water,
put the meal therein, mixing it in token that
they “would not sever till death did them
part,” took oath to this effect on a Bible, and
rising declared themselves man and wife.
A modern and economical method of getting
the matrimonial knot tied.
[new column]
	Mrs. Dr. Mary P. Sawtelle thinks that
every unmarried woman should have one
quarter section of land granted to her. She
has been successful in getting a small appro-
priation from the State Legislature of
Oregon for the encouragement and benefit
of immigrants; and has been moved to
engage in this good work by seeing thou-
sands of women whose protectors and
supporters have fallen in battle, toiling and
suffering in great cities. May her humane
exertions be well rewarded!
	On Saturday evening, 9th inst., at half-
past seven o’clock, a fire broke out in Boston,
which burned for about forty hours with
great violence, destroying over a hundred
million dollars worth of building, besides
the property in them. Coming a year and
a month after the great Chicago fire, which
it appears to have exceeded in the value
destroyed, it forces an inquiry as to the
cause not merely of the fire but of its fearfnl
spreading, setting at defiance all the means
known of for the suppression of conflagra-
tions in large cities.
	A highly interesting work is announced
as soon to be given to the public, bearing
the title of “Travels Around the World,” by
the late Hon. William H. Seward.   Olive
Risely Seward, the adopted daughter of Mr.
Seward, who accompanied him on his
journey, edits the work and gives accounts
of travels, observations and philosophical
reflections in the great Statesman’s own
words in connection with his conversations
with Presidents, crowned heads, East Indian
potentates and the Pope; of the crossing of
nearly all the mountains, oceans and rivers
in the world and the courtesies extended to
him in the countries which he visited.
	On Tuesday the 5th inst., Presidant U.
S. Grant, was re-elected to preside for
another term of four years over the United
States. The position taken by the woman
suffragists in the election campaign, the
declaration contained in the platform of the
Philadelphia Convention, and the subse-
quent action of the Massachusetts Repub-
licans, ought, when combined, to give some
assurance that woman suffrage would become
a portion of the supreme law of the land in
the next two years.  For the Republican
party, in the next Congress, can pass any
measure it pleases, and it can secure the
ratification by the requisite two-thirds of
the State legislatures of any amendment it
may propose to the Constitution.
	We clip the following from the “Cincin-
nati Commercial” of October 29th, and insert
it among Editorial Notes without further
comment: “A letter from Connecticut says:
Old Norwalk, long the Gibraltar Of Republic-
anism in Connecticut, but which was carried
by the Greeley party at the recent town
election, has still further advanced, and to-
day admitted to all the rights of an elector
Mrs. Sarah M. L. Huntington. The lady
appeared before the Board of Selectmen—
Messrs. Joseph P. Hanford, Andrew Selleck,
William H. Bauton and Henry K. Selleck,
Town Clerk, officers by law required to ex-
amine and admit all persons legally entitled
to suffrage, and demanded her rights by
virtue of the Constitution of the United
States. Her argument was clear and logical,
and could only be answered by the plea that
[new column]
in the opinion of most persons the law did
not contemplate women’s voting. Mrs.
Huntington so ably and dexterously knocked
aside this argument that the Board were
forced to the unanimous judgment that she
had proved herself equally entitled with
negroes to vote under the Fifteenth Amend-
ment, and Selectman Selleck administered
to her the customary freedman’s oath,
Her name was placed by the town clerk on
the voting list as a legally registered voter,
and nothing now can prevent her voting at
the coming election, as she is resolutely
determined to do. Thus Norwalk will be
entitled to the distinction of being the first
place in any State of the Union where a
female has been permitted to vote and
advanced to all the rights and privileges of
the American citizen. Two years ago last
April our State election occurred just as the
passage of the Fifteenth Amendment was
promulgated, and our Board admitted
negroes to vote, although they were denied
the privilege in every other town in the
State. Subsequent decisions of our ablest
lawyers confirmed the legality of that action.


