CONFERENCE.
	The Forty-Second Semi-Annual Conference
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, which commenced on Sunday morning,
October 6th, the usual time for the beginning
of the Fall Conference, was a period of true re-
joicing to the honest Saints who had the privi-
lege of being present and hearing the instruc-
tions given from the stand. The same peaceful,
charitable and intelligent spirit which ever
characterizes these Conferences prevailed at
the late one, and the counsel and admonitions
offered for the consideration of the people should
be long and well remembered. And not only
kept in rememberance, but put into daily prac-
tice by all who have the testimony of the Holy
Spirit that the principles taught them are pure,
and essential to the promotion of peace, happi-
ness and prosperity in this and in a future state
of existence. During the forenoon of the first
day of Conference, President Young remarked
to the Saints that when left to themselves for a
short time they were apt to begin to look at the
failings of others, forgetful of their own, and
thus lose the Spirit of light and deceive them-
selves. He said that prosperity would be given
to a portion of the Saints, while others could
not bear it but would be overthrown thereby.
	Who would not like to be prosperous in their
efforts to accomplish what they believe to be
right? Would it not “pay” any believer in the
Scriptures to “Seek the Kingdom of Heaven
and its righteousuess,” thus laying a sure foun-
dation upon which to build those things for
which the whole human family are striving-
riches, power, glory? There would certainly be
more wisdom in looking to ourselves and seeing
that we are prepared to receive blessings as they
are handed out to us, that we may not be over-
thrown by any of them, than in running wild
after the follies and vanities of the world, as
some of the brethren and sisters seem to be do-
ing. For as fast as we humble ourselves and
make ready, all the riches and glory that we
can take care of will be given to us.
	The President also remarked that “If the
Lord designs to try His people in all things as
has been spoken, we should see to it and be
prepared for each event as it transpires. For we
live in the fulness of times, when the Lord will
come to reign as King of Kings, and He should
be our law giver.”


