OUR JOURNAL.
	With the present number of the Exponent
five months of its existence as a journal will
have passed, and it is time that we asked those
clubs that subscribed for six months to renew
their subscriptions. We would request them to
take this matter into consideration now, that
by the time the thirteenth number goes to
press we may know how many copies to print.
Although the circulation of the Exponent has
increased rapidly since it was started, the paper
is not yet paying expenses. To do so will re-
quire a still larger circulation, for the desire is
not to make of it an advertising sheet, which
would pay, but a journal of value to its readers
and one worthy to be preserved. We hope with
increasing patronage to make it more valua-
ble than it is, and a means of acomplishing
good that can be pointed to with pleasure by
everyone interested in its success.
	But to do this the brains of two or three per-
sons are not enough. There are numbers of
ladies throughout the Territory who could


write and yet do not, and could clothe in point-
ed, touching words,ideas that would be of great
value to their sisters everywhere who read the
Exponent. There is more original matter
published in this journal than some of its
readers imagine. The first page of every num-
ber is editorial though it does not so appear;
and many contributed articles are published
with nothing but an initial letter to indicate
who is the author.  Still, it is desirable that
more original matter should appear. We would
also request of ladies to overcome the diffidence
which many of them have to their names be-
ing published, and let them appear attached to
their articles. It will not only show that the
contributions are original, but it will also show
that you entertain honest opinions which you
care not how openly you express.
	If the sisters throughout the Territory, and
especially those who occupy positions as officers
of the Relief Societies, will aid us by their
influence, by forwarding contributed articles,
short and suitable for these columns, and by
increasing our subscription list, we will en-
deavor to labor with all diligence and faithful-
ness to meet their desires in making such a
journal as will best represent the women of
Utah, their wants and wishes.


