EASE IN SOCIETY.

	“I’d rather thrash in the barn all day,” said
Reuben Riley to his sister, as he adjusted an
uncomfortable collar about his neck, “than
go to the pesky party. I never know what
to do with myself, stuck up in the parlor all
the evening. If the fellows would pull
their coats off and go out and chop wood on
a match, there’d be some fun in that.”
	“Well, I hate it as bad as you do, Reu-
ben,” said sister Lucy. “The fact is we
never go nowhere, to see anybody, and no
wonder we feel so awkward when we happen
to stir out.” 
	The remarks of this brother and sister
were but the echoes of the sentiment of
many other farmers’ boys and girls when
invited out to spend a social evening. But
poor Lucy had not hit the true cause of the
difficulty; it was not because they seldom
went any where, but because there was such
a wide difference between their home and
the company’s manners. The true way to


feel at ease in any garb is to wear it often.
If the pleasing garb of good manners is only
put on upon rare occasions, it will never fit
well and seem comfortable.
	Learn to behave properly at home, to
cultivate yourself. Do not sit or stand or
lounge about in an ungainly attitude, but
acquire a manly, erect bearing. I have
never seen such vigorous, hardy manhood
in any class as among cultivated farmers
sons. Let table manners be especially
looked after.
	If you are so unfortunate as to have a
mother who is careless in this regard, you
must do the best you can to remedy the
early defects in your home training. Note
carefully how well-bred people behave, and
do your best to imitate them. It is noble to
be an imitator of all that is good and beauti-
ful. Above all, if you wish to be at home
in society, fill your brain with ideas. Set
your mind at work. Wake it out of the
sluggishness it would naturally sink into if
you were only a plodder and nothing more,
by good stirring thought. Take the news-
papers and read them thoroughly. Know-
ledge is a great power in many more senses
than one. If you go into society with
something in your mind worth talking about,
you will not fail to find listeners who will
treat you with respect; and where you are
well received, you will not fail very soon to
find yourself at ease.—“Country Gentle-
man."


﻿[Written for the Exponent.]
		WHEN TO SPEAK.
			     —
	There is often virtue in remaining silent
when malevolence, jealousy, contempt or
ridicule excites the colloquial powers to
scorn, inconsistency, harshness or derision.
But there are also times when the tame,
taciturnity of which some pseudo-models 
of propriety are so anxious to present a
formula, reaches culpability. And these 
instances are of more frequent occurrence
than is generally admitted or realized.
When we hear the truth assailed falsely, it
is a duty for us to open our mouths and
endeavor to correct the heresy if possible,
by sound, philosophic reasoning. And this
may be done in a frank, easy manner, with-
out extravagance or cause of offence. When
a cheerful and clear mind may infuse a ray
of light into a burdened and beclouded one,
by words of counsel and comfort, it is un-
charitable and ungenerous to preserve
silence. And some gifted, yet over-careful 
people, may have accounts to settle hereafter 
for bridling the tongue too closely; if they
do not allow it to be of use where it might,
but for the mock-modesty of an affectedly
delicate instinct. Meeting a person in the
street, with whom you have a slight acquaint- 
ance, and who is in the least degree worthy
of recognition, and passing without notice,	
shows a lack of sociability which is often
mistaken for superciliousness. It is better
to speak, even should the reflection present
itself that others imagine themselves bet-
ter or wiser than we are. For if we believe
that other people entertain such feelings,
they may be led to credit the same opinion
of us, by our lack of sociability. But should
it be the case that they look upon us as
courtiers because we do not shun them, we
will, at least have the appearance of being
letter bred than they, if for this reason
they always allow us to speak first.


﻿TO ARRIVE at perfection, a man must have
very sincere friends or inveterate enemies;
because he would be made sensible of his
good or ill conduct either by the censures
of the one or the admonitions of the other.


