HOLIDAYS.
					—
	Thursday, the 28th ult., was by Presidential
proclamation set apart as a day of thanksgiving
for the United States. While not designated
as a day for recreation and enjoyment it was
generally so observed, and looked upon as a
“holiday,” in the ordinary acceptance of the
word, which is simply a corruption of “holyday,”
or a day set apart for pious observances. So
such seasons were at first considered in Europe,
and were usually dedicated to some “patron
saint,” some man or some woman whose
accorded piety was supposed to have endowed
them with a special power of blessing, and a
country or a place was dedicated to, and a day set
apart out of respect for each, that their patron-
age might be secured. These were called, “holy
days,” and are now called “holidays,” being
at first a mixture of worship and amusement;
of prayers offered up to the Saint whose day
was being celebrated, and of joyous exercises,
which formed a healthful relaxation from the
cares, and toils of every day life. In some
Roman Catholic countries these days were
multiplied beyond all bounds, encouraging
laziness, intemperance and their kindred vices;
while in these United States, where no religion
is specially recognized, there is a scarcity of
such seasons of relaxation. And while Thanks-
giving Day is now accepted as a time for
general enjoyment and amusement, there is
little doubt that our forefathers, in first deciding
upon such an occasion for a general union of
the whole people in giving thanks for mercies
received, were solemnly sincere, and really did
dedicate the day to returning thanks to the
Almighty, in prayer and praise, for His protect-
ing care and vouchsafed blessings.
	But in this regard, “the spirit of the age,” as
exemplified in the United States, is widely
wrong. It drives hard on the road to money-
making, looks only to present or future fortune,
and disregards the innocent, recreative relaxa-
tion which days devoted to amusement and
enjoyment afford. Various parts of different
countries observe days as fairs, feasts, wakes and
the like, the aim being to bring people together
for general enjoyment, with a suspension of
work and buisness, all of which is conducive to
the general welfare; for the mind needs change
and the body rest, other and more than are ob-
tained by a simple and proper observance of the
Sabbath.
	For these reasons Sunday School festivals
social parties, pic nic parties, theatrical per-
formances, and similar assemblages for enjoy-
ment, have been encouraged in this Territory
by President Young and other leading men, and
for these reasons, we believe a wise and proper
increase of “holidays,” or days expressly
devoted to relaxation and enjoyment, would be
conducive of good to all. Hence we urge upon
parents the wisdom of affording to children a
judicious amount of amusement, and upon all,
the requisite change, variety and recreation
necessary to highten the enjoyment of life and
prolong its existence for good upon the earth.


