HOME AFFAIRS.
The Report of the Hyrum Society was re-
ceived too late for publication this number, but
will appear in our next.
Provo and Logan are talking of papers, and
each will probably have one before a great
while. Southern Utah, too, should support a
larger sheet than the “Pomologist,” while in
Mr. J. E. Johnson it has a veteran editor of ex-
perience and ability.
"Will correspondents have the kindness,
in every instance, to send their names with
[new column]
their contributions? This is not that they may
be published, but that we may know who the
writers are. We have contributions now which
we hesitate to use, solely because the names of
the writers did not accompany the manuscripts.
We are pleased to note the prosperity of the
“Ogden Junction," which has changed its
semi-weekly form to a quarto shape, with a
new and hansome heading; and is published as
a daily as well. The “Junction” is a lively,
wide-awake sheet, which continues to grow in
public favor; and under the editorial and busi-
ness management of Mr. Penrose has been
made a financial success. It has our best
wishes for its continued prosperity.
The mild, beautiful weather, which prevailed
during the session of the Territorial Fair and
Semi-Annual Conference, gave additional cause
for enjoyment and gratitude to the people who
attended both with a desire to be pleased and
benefitted, in connection with the excellent
music afforded by the bands and the united
choirs, and the many splendid ideas given to
the Saints for reflection and general use.
President George A. Smith leaves this
morning for the East, accompanied by Elder
Feramorz Little. President Smith designs to
visit several parts of the United States, some
countries of Europe, and the Holy Land during
his absence, which he expects will extend to
about a year. The faith and prayers of the
Saints will be with him and the company that
will travel with him, who leave about the 26th
instant, during their absence.
The many friends of Sister Eliza R. Snow
will be pleased to learn that she is to make one
of the company that is to start about the 26th
of this month for a trip through a portion of the
United States and a visit to some other countries,
including the Holy Land. That she will go
with the faith and blessings of the Sisters who
have known and appreciated her good works in
Zion, is fully evinced by the many tokens for-
warded to that effect. Prayers will be offered
up on every hand, for her good health and
pleasure while she will be absent, and for her
early and safe return to her mountain home.
A Teachers’ Association was organized in
this City during the recent Conference, the
Convention of which it was the outgrowth be-
ing well attended by teachers from different
parts of the Territory. The Association is a
good one; its objects should command the sup-
port of every person in the Territory who has
the cause of education at heart, and its efforts
cannot result other than in good. Still, we
were disappointed in one thing connected with
it. There are many ladies engaged in the pro-
fession of teaching in the Territory, and who
are doing good work; yet on looking over the
names of the officers we do not find a lady’s
among them.
At a meeting of the Superintendents and
Teachers of Sabbath Schools, held on the even-
ing of the 7th inst., at the City Hall of this
City, nearly all the Counties in the Territory
and Wards of this City were represented. Many
Interesting topics pertaining to the best meth-
ods of conducting Sabbath Schools were ad-
vanced and dwelt upon, by several members;
and much encouragement and credit was given
to schools in general. Sabbath School Jubilees,
it is contemplated, will be held semi-annually
In Ogden, hereafter. So much good is believed
to have resulted from the one lately held there,
that all are anxious to have an improved repe-
tition, and an expansion of the blessings real-
ized, about the 1st of May next. Other organi-
zations of the same kind will, doubtless, adopt
similar proceedings for the gratification of
Sabbath School attendants, and the prosperity
of the Schools,


