JAMES FISK AND THE NEWSBOY.
				——
	 Stories of Col. Fisk are constantly in circu-
lation—some true, others not; but a little
incident which occurred not many months
before his death is perhaps one of the most
I touching of any that have been given to the
public. This one Mrs. Fisk takes especial
pleasure in recalling, illustrating, as it does,
her husband’s kindness of heart and readi-
ness of sympathy and help to those who
I needed aid. Col. Fisk had often noticed in
Twenty-third street a little crippled news-
boy, and one day he spoke to him in his
bluff, off-hand manner:
	“Well, my boy, how’s business?”
	“Not very good, sir,” was the reply.
	“What’s the matter?”
	“Why, you see I’m lame and can’t sell 
my papers very well.”
	“Not a very good lookout for you, is it? I
say, my boy, how would you like to go into
business with me?”
	The boy looked perplexed and eyed the
Colonel curiously.
	“I think we might strike a bargain. You
come to the Opera House at 11 this morn-
ing. I’ve got a plan for you. Now be on
time.”
	At 11 o’clock the boy was there, quite
curious to know what the Colonel wanted.
	“Hulloa, boy, you’re a good one. Now
see here, do you know a place for a paper
stand?”
	“Yes, sir, tip-top.”
	“Where is it?”
	“Down here at the corner.”
	“How much will a stand cost?”
	“Lots of money; much as fifty or a hun-
dred dollars.”
	“You don’t say so; why that’s a fortune.
Do you think there’s monoy to be made
there?”
	“Yes I do. It’s a first-rate place.”
	“Wel, I’ll get a carpenter to make the
stand and I’ll stock it; then you shall take
care of it and we’ll be partners; you and I
will go into the paper business.” 
	Col. Fisk then arranged with the boy
what part of the profits he should receive,
told him when the stand should be ready
and sent him on his way rejoicing. The plan
was very successful. Trade was good, and
evey week the boy carried his share of the
money to his partner. Seeing the boy’s
determination. Col. Fisk quietly put the
money aside, and one day gave it all to the
boy, releasing him from his contract to pay
any part of the money to himself. When
Col. Fisk died there was nowhere a sincerer
mourner than this little newsboy, and the
little stand on the corner was heavily draped
on the day of the burial.


