WOMEN’S FOREHEADS.
				  ——
	When phrenology first began to attract
attention as a science, high foreheads of
women, as well as of men, were associated
with intellect.
	Every member of the opposite sex, how-
ever dull or uncultivated she may be,
admires mental gifts, and has no objection
to the reputation of possessing them herself;
consequently she determined to have the
seeming, if not the reality, and stripped her
forehead of the clustering tresses, and even
removed the hair by artificial means, that
she might present a front which would
awake the enthusiasm of Gall or Spurzheim.
	For a number of years this mania for
high foreheads raged in spite of the patent
fact that they detracted from their feminine
loveliness, giving it a hard, bold, masculine
expression that should be sedulously avoided.
All the classic models of beauty, whether in
marble or on canvas, from the Venus and
Phyrne down to the Marys of Raphael and
the Magdaleus of Murillo, the picturesque
damsels of the Campagna, and the classic
Suliote maidens, instead of high have quite
low foreheads—something our own women
would seem at last to have discovered.
	Horace, and Catullus, and Ovid all sang of
the fair, fond creatures whose white fore-
heads gleamed like the crescent moon be-
neath the dark cloud of silken hair.


﻿Artists have so painted feminine beauty.
Men of taste and gallantry have admitted
such. Phrenology has ceased to be connected
with aesthestic subjects, and therefore we
have returned to nature and art. Indeed,
the passion now is rather for low foreheads,
for hair over the temples, and lovelocks
that shade the lustre of deep eyes.
	This is rather overdone—but it is prefer-
able to lofty foreheads and stripped brows,
that make the face more fitting for a Roman
senator than a genteel, tender, womanly
woman. Every man of taste must rejoice
that something like an approximation to
the old models and correct standard of femi-
nine loveliness has been established, and
they are no longer painted with
	“High white fronts that tell of power
	Which ne’er is fashioned by the gentle heart."


﻿Aged beauty.—Some one writes of the
beauty of old people. Who of us but have
seen this beauty, perchance upon an aged
grandmother, perhaps upon a mother ripen-
ing for Heaven, catching the radiance of
celestial glory ere they departed. He says:
“Lord Lytton speaks in one of his novels of
a man who was uglier than he had any
business to be; and if he could but read it,
every human being carries his life in his face,
and is good looking or the reverse as that
life has been good or evil. On our features
the fine chisel of thought and emotion are
eternally at work. Beauty is not the mon-
opoly of blooming young men and of pink
and white maidens. There is a slow-grow-
ing beauty which only comes to perfection
in old age. Grace belongs to no period of
life and goodness improves the longer it
exists. I have seen sweeter smiles from a lip
of seventy than upon a lip of seventeen.
There is the beauty of youth and the beauty 
of holiness—a beauty much more seldom
met and more frequently found in the arm-
chair by the fire, with grandchildren around
its knee. Husband and wife, who have
fought the world side by side, who have made
common stock of joy and sorrow and grown
aged together, are not unfrequently found
curiously alike in pitch and tone of voice—
just as twin Pebbles on the beach, exposed
to the same tidal influences, are each other’s
second self. he has gained a feminine some-
thing, which brings his manhood into full
relief. She has gained a masculine some-
thing which acts as a foil to her woman-
hood.”—Ex.


﻿The evil done by the first utterer of a
slander is small compared with that which
is spread through a community from the re-
petition of the false tale by idle babblers.
These persons would fain excuse themselves
by alleging that they had heard it from Hr.
So and-so, a Mrs. Such-a-one, or they shelter
themselves under the common generalities
of “people say,” or “they say.” Counter-
feited coins and bank-notes, however ingen-
iously executed, do no harm if they remain
in the hands of the original forger. It is by
their circulation that the people suffer.
Somebody once said to a sage: “A man
slandered you in my presence.” “If,”
replied the wise man, “you had not listened
with pleasure, he would not have defamed
me.” The remark was a just one.


﻿This is the way St. Louis ’squires aid suf-
fering young people, according to the
“Democrat:” “A loving couple called on
Justice Jecko to get married. On examina-
he learned the girl was not yet 18, and he
told her to go up street to another justice,
and by the time she reached there she would
probably be old enough. Upon this hint the
lovers brightened up, and on the next trial
accomplished their purpose.”


