			STANDING ALONE.

	Down he goes! And, Oh! what a thump
on that precious head! It must be bathed
in cold water and camphor. And tender,
pitying expressions must be uttered to sooth
the little wounded heart—which is as nearly
broken by having made this first grand
attempt to “do something,” and met with
so sudden and unexpected a failure, in the
way of a fall, fright and injury, as it ever
will be by heavier falls in future life. All
the laughter and innocent joyousness which
illumed the baby face a moment before,
have disappeared, and tears of anguish and
cries of dispondency and pain, tell how
accutely the disappointment is felt by the
enterprising young genius, just beginning
to learn to walk. His hopes are blighted,
his prospects so bedimmed and clouded that
he feels he never can be anything or any-
body in the world, and overwhelmed with
grief and discouragements, he allows his
little head to droop upon a loving neck, and
there wails himself to sleep under the in-
fluence of the sweet lullaby of a sympathiz-
ing voice. After a brief rest, however, he
will awake again, and with renewed anima-
tion and vigor, stand bravely forth to make
another effort with, perhaps, a little more
caution than before, and, very possibly
better success.
	But other failures lie in wait for him.
Other disappointments will have to be
encountered. The path of life he will find,
is thronged with them. Every little way
there is a hill to be surmounted, a summit
to be gained. And untaught feet are ever
apt to choose the slippery paths, because
they look most smooth and inviting. And
with a fall as sudden as the infant’s first,
are fair, bright prospects often stricken
down, and high hopes blasted by a single
shock, and all the sunshine of a young, glad
life crushed and lost apparently for ever.
Then; should there be no sympathizer near,
no voice to cheer, no practiced hand to
guide, and to lift up and rest the weary head,
and bring new life and animation to the
over burdened, bruised and breaking heart
—how terrible to stand thus all alone. But
it is not, nor never can be so to one who lives
for pure and noble aims. The happiest
heart is heavy in its turn; the strongest,
weak at times, and calls for aid; but there
is a Source of strength for the fainting soul
which never fails, and sunshine for the
gloomiest heart, brighter and more glorious
than the mother’s smile upon her loving,
trusting dear one.				G.


