A CHEERFUL HOME.
	A single word may disquiet an entire
family for a whole day. One surly glance
casts a gloom over the household; while a
smile, like a gleam of sunshine, may light
up the darkest and weariest hours. Like
unexpected flowers which spring up along
our path, full of freshness, fragrance and
beauty, so kind words, and gentle acts,
and sweet dispositions, make glad the home
where peace and blessings dwell. No matter
how humble the abode, if it be thus gar-
nished with grace and sweetness, with kind-
ness and smiles, the heart will turn laugh-
ingly toward it from all the tumults of the
world, and home, if it be so homely, will be
the dearest spot beneath the circuit of the
sun.
	And the influence of home perpetuate
themselves. The gentle grace of the mother
lives in her daughters long after her head
is pillowed in the dust of earth; and fatherly
kindness finds its echo in the nobility and
courtesy of some who come to wear his
mantle, and to fill his place; while on the
other hand, from an unhappy, misgoverned
and disordered home, go forth persons who
shall make other homes miserable, and per-
petuate the sourness and sadness, the con-
tentions, and strifes, and railings, which
have made their own early lives so wretch-
ed and disordered.
	Toward the cheerful home the children
gather “as clouds, and as doves to their
windows;” while from the home which is
the abode of discontent, and strife, and
trouble, they fly forth as vultures to rend
their prey.
	The class of men that disturb and disorder
and distress the world are not those born
and matured amid the hallowed influences of
Christian homes; but rather those whose
early life has been a scene of trouble and
vexation, who have started wrong in the
pilgrimage, and whose course is one of dis-
aster to themselves and trouble to those
around them.


﻿				[Written for the Exponent.]
		HEALTH AND HAPPINESS.
				   —
	It is generally admitted that cheerfulness
is essential to health. Many women pine
under gloomy and despondent spirits, and
thus work themselves into maladies and
nervous affections, who might otherwise be
strong, whole-souled and energetic. Under
some circumstances, it almost seems that
this cannot be avoided; yet, by taking a
proper course, it can be overcome. It may


require a severe struggle and many an ex-
traordinary effort, but an average power of
mind and tolerable strength of character,
which can be increased by earnest prayer,
will conquer; and free a person from depres-
sion of spirits and languishing debility of
body, when all the doctors and medicines
that could be procured for the purpose would
utterly fail.
	To tell of the trials and hardships through
which we are passing, and talk over the
grievances we are brought to encounter, is
not the safest remedy or surest cure for such
ailments, but rather incentives to heart dis-
ease and irratibilities of different kinds.
Neither is it wise to sit mopishly down and
brood over discontent and dismal occur-
rences in the way of life, forgetful of the
blessings all around us, which we may pos-
sess if we will only earn and accept
them when they are offered to us. But
when bitter thoughts would force themselves
upon the mind, unthinking or unkind as-
sociates introduce subjects of a disagreeable
nature, the best way to do is to dismiss all
such things in short order, without stopping
to think it impossible to help dwelling upon
them. The very excellent means for do-
ing this are so numerous and varied, and so
much at the disposal of every one, that it is
hardly worth while to mention any of them
here. But the necessity of woman’s em-
ploying these means, understanding them
and taking time, aside from other duties,for
exercising them assiduously, is a subject of
importance to many. With some, just so
much work must be accomplished in a day,
whether they feel at every step as though it
must be the last,or otherwise. While others,
feeling dull and heartsick, often with just
cause, mope around and accomplish nothing,
when with their ambition slightly aroused,
they would be abundantly able to do a large
amount of labor,benefitting themselves there-
by in many ways. Either method for get-
ting along is a mistake. Extremes are un-
warrantable and should be avoided. To
work all the time or not at all is injurious to
health of mind and body. A walk in the
fresh air, a chapter from a good book,a romp
with the babies or a sweet little song, even
if you have to sing it yourself, often in- 
creases health and happiness.			L.


