HOME AFFAIRS.
				     —
	PRESENT INDICATIONS are that more benefit
is likely to accrue from the Sabbath Schoois,
taught in the various Wards in this City, under
the new system of holding Sabbath Schools
and meetings, than has been realized heretofore.


As no Sabbath meetings are to be held in the
Tabernacle during the Winter, and the fore-
noon is to be devoted to Sunday Schools in
each Ward, opportunities are offered for a
much larger attendance at these schools.
Superintendents and teachers will seek the as-
sistance of elders who have the faculty of
imparting intelligence, to form and instruct
classes of youths in any or all useful branches
of education, but particularly in the principles
of the Gospel. Sacrament and evening meet-
ings will also be conducted in the meeting
houses of the different Wards.
	THE PHYSIOLOGICAL Class, under the super-
vision of Mrs. Sarah E. Kimball, is progressing
finely. Books appropriate for students com-
mencing the study of Physiology have been
ordered and received, and may be obtained by
application to Miss Mary E. Cook at the school-
room, the Social Hall.
	AMONG THE recent deaths which have occur-
red in this City, we note that of Sister James
S. Brown as one of the most affecting. Her
example as a true daughter, sister, wife and
mother, and a faithful Latter-day Saint, her
acquaintance testify.
					—
	WE WILLINGLY give place to the following
obituary notice which has been forwarded to us:
	Father Daniel Stanton was a soldier, in the
war of 1812. He has filled many responsible
positions in the Church and for his country
honorably. He leaves a numerous family to
mourn their bereavement. His loss is felt by
the community in which, for some time, he
filled the office of Judge and Justice of the
Peace, until last August. He was born May
28th, 1795, in Onondago, New York. Father
Morley, Daniel Stanton, etc., etc. and their
families were living as one; or in the Apostolic
Order. Joseph Smith’s first Elders said they
were sent there. Father Stanton was the first
to believe and confess it. Parley P. Pratt bap-
tized him. He had lived 77 years, 9 months and
29 days.
	ON FRIDAY, the 9th inst., a company of ladies
and gentlemen, by invitation of President B.
Young, enjoyed a ride to the Promontory and
back again, a distance of 180 miles, behind the
new locomotive which has been built for the
Utah Central Railroad. The weather was fine,
much of the scenery and road, including where,
for some distance, the latter is cut through
solid rock, was new to many of the excursion-
ists; and, altogether, the undertaking to have
a little season of pleasurable entertainment was
a quiet success, as all such excursions are when
properly arranged.


