MISCELLANEOUS.
				     —
The sum of $836 was realized by the read-
ings of Miss Charlotte Cushman at Newport,
given in aid of the Newport hospital.
	THE LOUISVILLE “Courier-Journal” says
that Judge Davis is the proprietor of a smile
that would make Colfax turn green with
jealousy. It “commences in the center and
spreads all over his face like a batter-cake”
	A GOOD WOMAN never grows old. Years
may pass over her head, but if benevolence
and virtue dwell in her heart she is as
cheerful as when the spring of life first
opened to her view. When we look upon a
good woman we never think of her age; she
looks as charming as when the rose first
bloomed on her cheek. That rose has not
faded yet; it will never fade. In her neigh-
borhood she is a friend and benefactor; in
the church the devout worshipper and ex-
emplary Christian. Who does not love and
respect the woman who has passed her days
in acts of kindness and mercy; who has been
the friend of man and God, her life has been
a scene of kindness and love, devotion to
truth and religion? We repeat, such a wo-
man cannot grow old. She will always be
fresh and buoyant in her spirit and active in
her humble deeds of mercy and benevolence.
If the young lady desires to retain the bloom
and beauty of youth, let her not yield to the
sway of fashion and folly; let her love truth
and virtue, and to the close of life she will
retain those feelings which now make life
appear a garden of sweets, ever fresh and
green.—Ex.
	PRINCESS ALEXDROWA Troubescheneff,
nee Stratoneroskoff, (or words to that effect,)
sailed from Bremen recently on the New
York steamer. She comes to the United
States to join the “Oneida Society,” New
York. The Princess belongs to one of the
families of the old feudal nobility, is im-
mensely wealthy, and enjoys a certain popu-
larity as a graceful writer of local plays.
She also published a few years since a small
volume of Russian poetry, in the Deshoul-
lieries style. She is a Princess of no small
talent, but her “forte” is the languages; she
speaks no less than seven of them. Is it
possible that a person so richly gifted shall
soon be seen among that sisterhood of the
Bloomer costume, in those odious brown
frocks and drawers to match; her beautiful
tresses cut to her ears, and those lovely
white hands busily engaged manufacturing
apple sauce? The New York “Herald”
may spare Mr. Stanley this time. She has
declared, on leaving, she would refuse to be
interviewed by American newspaper re-
porters.—“New York Herald.”
	“OYEZ, OYEZ! Advance to the bar Miss
Phoebe Couzens, and receives an address of
welcome from Judge McKean and the hearty
congratulations of her brethren in the law.
All this in Salt Lake City, on motion of
Governor Woods. At the same time Miss
Snow, daughter of the Territory Attorney
General, was also admitted on motion of ex-
United States Attorney Hempstead. What
with the progress of the gentler sex in
Wyoming politics and Utah law, that part
of America promises to be ‘the woman’s
kingdom’. Now let us see if the new law-
yeresses, bretherin’ and sisterin’ of the bar,
do themselves proud.”
	We know that fair Phoebe will. She was
exceedingly fair to look upon, and had
sweet, winning ways and a musical voice.
But why, oh! Phoebe, goest thou to Salt
Lake? Was it in search of a part of a man
in that polygamous region, when thou
couldst have had that here?—“Washington
Capital.”


