LADIES OF OLDEN TIME.

	History and tradition offer many types of
beautiful womanhood. The grace and love-
liness of Greece, the more heroic grandeur
of old Rome, the social and personal equality,
so to speak, of the white-armed Scandin-
avian women, the domestic activities and
courtly ladyhood of the medieval “chate-
laine,” all these, and many more, are as


pictures, wherein we see represented the
ideal woman, each perfect after its kind,
and all beautiful. In saying this, we must
of course, allow for the difference of custom
between then and now, and not judge accord-
ing to the religion of our nineteenth century
drawing room. Now the rule is for men to
pay attention to women, and to prevent their
doing the most trifling act for themselves,
and “serving” is the last thing our ladies
think of; then—though this “then” is very
wide, both in race and chronology—the
distinctive quality of womanhood was her
service, and the more lovely and perfect the
lady, no matter what her nation or era, the
more thoroughly she performed the assigned
functions of her state, and the more inex-
tricable her ladyhood was connected with
such performance. Queens and princesses
bound up the wounds of, and poured out
wine for their lords and knights; and in
that pretty story of “Walthere and the
Lady Hildegund,” Walthere is represented
as falling in love with the lady while she is
serving him with wine. Also, in the story
of “Beowulf,” Hrthogar’s queen, the noble
Wealtheow, advanced from her seat to bear
the cup to the warriors. First she offered it
to the king, her husband, and greetingly
“bade him to be blithe at the bear-drink-
ing, he who was dear to his people.” Then
she went round the hall, offering the cup,
and distributing gifts to each. At length
the “ring-adorned queen, exalted in mind,”
bore the mead-cup to Beowulf himself, and
“sagacious in words,” addressed the hero
in flattering terms. The same kind of
thing prevails in some of the more northern
parts of Europe to this day; and to our mind
the picture of our young daughters of the
house themselves serving the guests—not
as inferiors, be it understood, but as the dis-
pensers of hospitality and welcome—is a far
more lovely manifestation than the silent
automatic attendance of half a dozen men
in livery, who have reduced “waiting at
table” to a science, wherein he is the
greatest proficient who is the most mechani-
cal and the least human. — “Chimney
Corner.”


