MISCELLANEOUS. 
			     —
	DOCTOR Franklin said that every little
fragment of the day should be saved.
	A ST. LOUIS paper tells its readers that
“Louisville mules, after kicking the counten-
ance off their drivers, calmly haul the corpse
to an undertaker’s shop, where it can be at-
tended to.”
	THE EMPEROR of Austria has established
a Jewish theological faculty in the Imperial
University, to be equal in its rights and
privileges to the Roman Catholic and Prot-
estant faculties.
	CHILD-SELLING in Japan is carried on to
such an extent that the Government is try-
ing to suppress it. The purchase money of
a little child is only three dollars, and the
girls of fifteen years of age can be bought
for twenty.
	THE DIFFERENCE in nature was well il-
lustrated the other day at the depot. Two
sisters, met:	“O, my dear sister,” said one,
exhaustedly, as they embraced. “You’ve
been eating onions,” said the other, calmly
and fearlessly.
	A LOVING heart and pleasant countenance 
are commodities which a man should never
fail to take home with him. They will best
season his food and soften his pillow. It
were a great thing for a man that his wife
and children could truly say of him:	“He
never brought a frown or unhappiness across
his threshold.”
	FRET NOT.—“The horse that frets is the
horse that sweats,” is an old saying of
horsemen, and it is just as true of men as
horses. The man that allows himself to
get irritated at every little thing that goes
amiss in his business, or in the ordinary af-
fairs of life, is a man that, as a rule, will
accomplish little and wear out early. He
is a man for whom bile and dyspepsia have
a particular fondness, and for whom chil-
dren have a particular aversion. He is a
man with a perpetual thorn in the flesh,
which pricks and wounds at the slightest
movement; a man for whom life has little
pleasure and the future small hope.
	CHINESE ETTIQUETTE.—The Chinese “carte
de visite” is a curiosity. It consists of a
bright scarlet paper, with the owner’s name
inscribed in large letters—the bigger the
more exquisite. For extra grand occasions
the card is folded ten times, the name is
written on the right hand lower corner,with
a humiliating prefix, like, “your very stupid
brother,” “your unworthy friend who bows
his head and pays his respects,” etc., the
words “your stupid” taking the place of
“yours respectfully.” It is etiquette to re-
turn these cards to the visitors, it being
presumable that the expense is too great for
general distribution.
	A YOUNG woman recently appeared before
the Court at Liege with a demand for a sep-
aration or divorce from her husband, on the
ground that he had hired, without her con-
sent, a suit of apartments which she could
not occupy. She was informed that this
simple disregard of her wishes was not suf-
ficient ground for a divorce. The law de-
manded that she should follow her husband.
“What! the law compels me to follow my
husband?” “Certainly.” “We shall see,
then.” The lady disappeared and at once
attached herself to her husband and followed
him every step that he took for two days.
This was sufficient to attract the attention
of the whole city, for the poor husband could
no more escape her than he could his
shadow. Finally the police interfered, and
she was arrested for causing the gathering
of a crowd on the streets.


