THE SEX.
			      —
	THE Queen of Sweden is a novelist. She
writes for the press over the nom de plume
of Annie Arden.
	ABBY Sage Richardson has a now lecture
for this season, on Sir Walter Raleigh and
his American voyages.
	A young lady in Georgia has petitioned
the Legislature to pass an act prohibiting
flirtation on the part of young men.
	A YOUNG lady in Harrisburg has been
made blind by the poisonous dyes in some
goods she has been sewing in a fashionable
dry goods house.
	CHICAGO has a shooting gallery for the ex-
clusive use of ladies, among whom there is
a growing restlessness to become proficient
with rifle and pistol.
	HARRIET Martineau and five hundred
other English women have petitioned the
House of Commons to dispense with the
“cat” as a means of punishment.
	A LONG Branch beauty was recently
weighed in her promenade costume and
turned the scales at 165 pounds. In her
bathing dress she weighs 106 pounds.
	In a Florida young ladies’ seminary the
thoughts of the inmates are taken from
dress, by putting the girls in uniform-
dark green for Winter and pink for Sum-
mer.
	“Dear me, how fluidly he talks,” said
Mrs. Partington recently at a temperance
meeting. “I am always rejoiced when he
mounts the nostral, for his eloquence warms
every catridge in my body.”
	Mrs. Richardson, of Cheshire, a relative
of Susan B. Anthony, who has carried on a
large farm for twelve years since her hus-
band’s death, thinks, now she is seventy-
seven years old, it is about time to retire
from business, and so is building a cottage
at the center of the town.
	Lilian Edgarton was lately compelled to
appear before a Memphis audience without
her lecture manuscript and her pretty dress,
both of the articles being in her trunk. She
compromised, however, by reading a sketch
of another lecture, and reciting “The
Launching of the Ship,” and the next even-
ing gave her lecture in full costume.
	Miss Edith Challis denies the truth of the
report of having been made the heiress of
an opulent old lady to whom she was kind
during her illness. Miss C. also says that
several pious English relatives, who had
ceased to recognize her since her connection
with the stage, became suddenly sociable,
and invited her to stay at their houses, on
learning that she had become a capitalist.
	The celerated lady dentist of Berlin, Mrs.
Henrietta Herschfeld, is described as a re-
fined and beautiful woman, with wonderful
strength in her small hand. She extracts
teeth with unsurpassed dexterity and pre-
cision. Moreover, she prepares well-written
articles for magazines, in which she instructs
mothers in regard to the care of children’s
teeth—a matter which seems not generally
understood in Germany.
	A SPINSTER who can stand the derogatory
remarks concerning old maids no longer,
writes to the Cincinnati “Times:” “I am
happy to say that I have for many years be-
longed to that class of much reviled women;
but many of my intimate friends have been
married women,and from them I have heard
more scandal and detraction, more jealousy
and rivalry, more of the spirit of ‘envy,
hatred, and malice and uncharitableness,’
than from any old maid I ever knew or heard
of.”


