EDUCATION AND EMPLOYMENT OF
			GIRLS.
			  ——
	Nothing so tends to the degeneracy of
womanhood as a life of laziness and indulg-
ence—an aim for a wealthy husband, and
then life with no object nor aim beyond
raising a family, whether taste lies in that
direction or not. It is not only bad for
physical health, but is bad for moral also.
	A very serious and common mistake in
the training of our girls is the neglect defi-
nitely to provide against the vicissitudes of
life with the faculty of noble self support.
Just think of your daughter, well born and
rocked in the lap of luxury, coming, one of
these days, to sewing or keeping boarders
for a livelihood. Yet thousands of girls,
upon whose girlhood fortune lavished her
gifts, have come to that. It seems to us
that a very rich man who has daughters
should provide for them with visions of the
almshouse continually floating before his
eyes. No amount of pecuniary endowment
will be a sure defence against the demons of
pauperism. The fires may burn it up, the
waves may engulf it, prodigal scoundrels of
husbands may waste it, rascally trustees and
executors may pillage it. These and a
thousand kindred contingencies considered,
besides the proverbial helplessness of wo-
man, are almost enough to make a thought-
ful and cautious man pray that daughters
may not be born unto him.
	So, then, we say, let the education of our
girls provide for the possible problems of
self-help in the noblest possible way. The
daughters of millionairs and mechanics alike
should be made distinctly to understand
that all the love romances lie, and that there
is no such thing as making a compact with
fortune to avert the necessity of honest toil.
Nay, more, we would have the girls taught
that labor, especially brain labor, for the
benefit of the world, is too noble to be un-
dertaken for mere mercenary ends, albeit
the world must and will pay for it.
	Our American girls need a great deal of
discipline in this respect, and their fathers
and mothers need to have a great many of
their foolish notions of propriety about toil,
and the wicked caste idea it encourages,
killed as the rank social weed it is. You
will hardly find a girl who will teach
school, or a parent who will allow it, except
under the compulsion of a scanty purse.
What a shame to our Christianity is this!
A fine lady, rustling in her silks, boasts that
she has had all masters in literature and art,
has seen all the galleries of Europe, speaks
three languages, can draw from nature, and
we know not what else; and yet she would
not soil her respectibility by teaching a child
of ignorance the alphabet or hammering the
multiplication table into a class of little
know-nothings in calico! Sure enough, the
millennium has not come yet.—Balance.


﻿A LITTLE girl, not far from Schenectady,
after noticing for some time the glittering
gold-filling in her aunt’s front teeth, ex-
claimed: “Aunt, I wish I had copper-toed
teeth like yours.”
	A PAPER recently alluded to a man as a
“battle-scared veteran.” The compositor
was so agitated when the editor made him
correct it, that he changed it to “battle-
scarred” veteran. And still the veteran in
question was not satisfied.
	THERE have been several instances lately
out West of girls who have run away to join
the circus. What a joy it must be to a
gentle maiden to array herself in gauze and
spangles, and dash through paper covered
hoops, and associate with teamsters and
rowdyish circus men.


