FACTS AND FIGURES.
				—
	The first railway in Tunis has been
opened.
	In New York, 77,790 pupils attend the
public schools. 
	There are 285 iron-clad vessels in the
twelve navies of the world.
	There are 573 lighthouses on the coast
of the United States, and 22 light ships.
	Parepa Rosa has received a golden med-
al from the London Philharmonic Society.
	Since the abolition of the gallows in Iowa
there has not been a murder in that State.
	An iron church, costing $160,000, for the
town of Amron, Peru, was shipped from
New York.
	Street cars are said to run to Mount
Zion, Jerusalem, the street lamps being
lighted with gas.
	The citizens of Ohio, it is estimated, have
their lives insured to the aggregate amount
of $130,000,000.
	In Perry city, Georgia, one dollar tax is
abated for every shade tree planted by the
citizens along the sidewalks.
	An English church has been erected at
Cairo, and the Khedive of Egypt has of-
fered a site for the purpose.
	In a stone quarry at Anamoso, Iowa, I
solid block of stone,on being sawed through,
was found to contain a petrified human foot.
	SPEAKING of the climate of the Argen-
tine Republic, Professor Gould says: “A
bowl of water left uncovered in the morning
is dry at night; ink vanishes from the ink-
stand as if by magic; the bodies of dead
animals dry up instead of decomposing, and
neither exercise nor exposure to the sun’s
rays produce perspiration.”
	Shakespeare was married at 18; Dante,
Franklin and Bulwer at 24; Kepler, Mozart
and Walter Scott at 26; Washington, Napo-
leon I. and Byron at 27; Rossini, the first
time at 30 and the second time at 54; Schil-
ler and Weber at 31; Aristophanes at 36;
Wellington at 37; Talma at 39; Luther at
42; Addison at 44; Young at 47; Swift at
49; Buffon at 53, and Goethe at 57.
	A wonderful cave has just been dis-
covered in Kansas, which has a lake of pure,
clear water extending almost from the en-
trance, in a northeast direction, as far as the
sight of the discoverer could reach. He
threw stones as far as possible, and could
hear nothing but the splashing sound that
water gives echoed back to him. The
height of the roof above water is seven of
eight feet.
	West of the Mississippi river the United
States still owns 973,482,593 acres, dis-
tributed as follows: Missouri, Iowa and
Arkansas, 16,000,000; Dakota and Wyom-
ing, 145,295,284; Montana, 86,604,605; Kan-
sas, 43,148,076; Nebraska, 55,223,637; Color-
ado and Idaho, 117,800,000; New Mexico
and Utah, 224,140,000; Nevada and Arizona,
136,000,000; Minnesota, 36,876,170; Indian
Territory, 154,000,
	The total reduction of customs duties un-
der Act of Congress, June 6th, 1872, and on
tea and coffee under the Act of May 1st,
1872, on the principal dutiable articles and
manufactures, in addition to the free list, as
estimated at the Treasury Department,
amounts to $31,172,761 38. Of this sum the
reduction on tea and coffee alone amounts to
$15,893,846 67. In addition to this there is
a total reduction of interest and taxes of
$20,651,000—making a grand total of $51,-
923,761.


﻿[Written for the Exponent.]
		A PLEA FOR THE BOYS.	
	Oh, yes, I know the boys are wild,
that they use bad language and cultivate
bad habits, and, as you say, “make them-
selves a great nuisance;” but, my friend, I
don’t think the boys deserve quite so much
blame as they get. When a little fellow 
goes with his father to church, if he is well
taught, he will listen to what the speaker
says; and especially will he notice every
word which comes from the lips of his own
father. Well, if father testifies that it is
the duty of all who would wear the name of
Saints, to keep the Word of Wisdom and
follow the strict rules of temperance in all
things, and especially to abstain from hot
drinks and intoxicating beverages of all
kinds, if the boy knows nothing to the con-
trary, he is apt to think his father is a
pretty good Saint. But if father goes home
from church and sits down to his dainty cup
of tea, and after dinner lights his pipe or
cigar and lazily puffs its filthy fumes with
the air of perfect contentment which smok-
ers are apt to assume, the young philosopher
will draw sharp comparisons between pre-
cept and practice, and if he make a poor
choice, remember it is no more than his
father did. If some quiet neighborhood is
in an uproar on a fine morning through find-
ing woodracks and wagons cutting gambols
on the tops of fences and barns, and pendant
cats making hideous music, and dogs and
yearlings running wild with kettles tied to
their tails, don’t suppose that “those boys”
invented all the mischief themselves; but
rest assured that some father, uncle or other
“jolly good fellow” has been regaling the
“young imps” with spicy reminiscences of
his boyhood, and this is only the legitimate
fruit of the seed thus sown. If boys waste,
their fine powers of mind in studying how
to evade the drudgery of learning lessons,
and play tricks to puzzle and annoy the
schoolma’am, don’t forget how the old boys
boast of their proficiency in that line. Don’t 
set them down as unmitigated annoyances
unless you wish them to prove your opinion
correct. Don’t always beg them to spare
your nerves when they want a little harm-
less play at home. When I heard a father
complain that “outside influences” was too
strong for him, and it was almost more than
he could do to keep his boys under any re-
straint whatever, I could not help wonder-
ing if “inside influence” were what they
should be. Did his son ever feel at liberty
to bring a comrade home with him for din-
ner, without fear that mother’s brow would
cloud and mother’s lips be dumb while the
youthful guest remained? Or that father,
ignoring the visitor’s presence, would im-
prove the occasion to rebuke him sternly for
some boyish negligence and wound his self-
respect in the presence of his friend? Did
father ever ask his opinion or advice con-
cerning even the smallest of his affairs, to
show that he thought his son a reasonable
being and possessed of at least ordinary un-
derstanding? Did father ever make the
slightest pretense of leaning upon him as
upon his best friend, or treat him more like
a peer than a servant? Parents, I fear we
are too jealous of our authority and exercise
too much control over our boys. Would it
not be better to lay by some of this authority
and show a little more of the friend and
companion? Show a little more interest in
their personal affairs, and cultivate in them
a little more interest in ours? Do not com-
pel them to this or that course because it is
their duty to obey, but paint for them the
results of righteousness in such charming


colors that they cannot fail to choose the
right way. And above all, let our teach-
ings be more by example than by precept.
Let us follow the principles which we teach;
let our actions correspond with our words,
and then the boys cannot fail to believe us.
But so long as we recommend one course
and follow another, we cannot expect their
moral basis to be quite settled. So long as
we deny them any recreation at home, we
need not be surprised if they seek it abroad.
So long as we do not lead them into proper
courses, we cannot wonder that they fall into
improper ones. So long as we are too stern
and austere, we cannot wonder that, in their
disgust, they fly to the opposite extreme.
Admit that they have some rights, as em-
bryo citizens, which you are bound to re-
spect; and then go before to lead them into
straight paths, rather than behind, to drive.
Say very little about “authority,” and
"obedience,” but contrive so that the boys
do just as you desire, while thinking they
are having exactly their own way.
	BEAVER, October, 1872.	L. L.	D.


