CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.

	Miss E. R. Snow writes from Chicago, under
date Oct. 30, 1872:
	My trip thus far has been very satisfactory.
In crossing the plains, I frequently drew the
contrast between the present and the past, and
could hardly realize the present to be a living
reality. To travel with ease, devoid of fatigue,
in three days, a distance which a few years ago
required more than three months of weariness
and privations to accomplish, is certainly a
very great change. 	*	*	*	I took an
earnest glimpse of the beautiful, stupendous
bridge as we crossed the Missouri river. It is a
piece of workmanship worthy of a critical day-
light observation.
	We left Council Bluffs in the midst of one of
those thunder-storms so common to that local-
ity, beyond the necessity of artificial irrigation.
It was 9 o’clock at night, but what were the
night and the storm to us! Instead of pitching
tents and circling beneath a dripping roof, we
were comfortably seated in a palace car and
traveling at an almost incredible speed. So
much for the blessings of God on the march of
improvement. These night travels cheat us of
many pleasurable scenic views, a tax which
time-saving naturally brings.
	At the Bluffs we took the Rock Island route
to Chicago, and arrived at R. I. City where we
breakfasted, and took a hasty view of the stir-


ring, beautiful place, with the railroad bridge—
one in progress of erection—all curiosities to
one as little acquainted with railroads as my-
self. The scenery from Rock Island to Chicago
is varigated, and as seen while passing, as we
did, at times at the rate of nearly a mile per
minute, is very delightful; one characteristic
worthy of notice, being the freshness of verdure
in comparison to what we had previously
passed.
	We arrived here last evening at 4 o’clock, and
the missionaries to Europe left on the 5 o’clock
train for New York.	*	*	* 	My health
is good, and my heart full of gratitued. Sister
Mercy R. Thompson joins in love to all our
good sisters.	
