THE SEX.
			      —
	The “World” speaks of that “maudlin and
murderous hag, Mrs. Fair.”
	Rosa Bonheur’s last painting is a tiger
fighting a hyena. It is said to be her master-
piece.
	At Mankato, Minn. a woman was accused
of throwing a baby into the river. The
river was raked by an incensed community
and a dead cat brought to light.
	A woman in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, has
sent the saloon keepers there, a bill of $200,
being the amount legally due her for a
pounding inflicted by her husband.
	An exchange says that Miss Sabone
Kornell, of Little Camplon, R. I., is en route
to Omaha on foot. She had arrived at Terre
Haute, Ind., at last accounts, and was then
healthy and hopeful.
	A Boston lady, but eighteen years old,
named Avonia Bonney, made a highly suc-
cessful debut at the Balbo Theatre, Turin,
a few weeks ago. She appeared in a new
opera by Joseph Boszelli.
	The New York “Tribune” is very ungal-
lant and alludes exultingly to the discomfiture
of mothers and daughters who have been
“angling” this Summer at the various water-
ing-places with such poor success. Their
failure is accounted for by the somewhat
worn theory that the poor but honest young
men are frightened away by the display of
extravagance on the part of the frivolous
young ladies.
	A little girl in a New York Orphan
Asylum quarreled with another girl and
scratched her face. For this she was
punished and required to learn and repeat a
verse from the Bible, being allowed her own
selection. She chose the first verse of Psalm
44, which runs as follows: “Blessed be the
Lord my strength which teacheth my hands
to war.and my fingers to fight.
	Molly Strong, of Newton, Michigan,
dug a well forty feet deep last summer, and
received one hundred and thirty dollars
from her father therefor. Then a lot of fel-
lows went fooling around after Molly, and
wanted to marry her; but she pensively
kicked them outdoors, with the remark
that she “wasn’t going to take fellers who
wanted her just because they found out she
could work like a horse.”
	The Princess Salm-Salm has entered a
Catholic convent at Innspruck in the Tyrol.
The Princess is an American by birth, a
Miss Agnes Leclerq, of Baltimore, and her
romantic adventures in Mexico, six years
ago, filled the newspapers of the time. She
saved her husband’s life in Mexico, and got
him restored to his military rank in Ger-
many. He was killed at Gravelotte, at the
head of his regiment, She was at one time
a circus rider, and her career altogether has
been filled with adventure.


