[Vol27 | November 1940 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Literature and Carroll]
LITERATURE AND LIVING
Elsie C. Carroll Brigham Young University ALL good literature has a close bearing upon everyday living. The purpose of our literature lessons is to help the members of the organization to feel this close relationship between life and literature and to gain the most significant values offered by the study of good books. Our literature lessons this year deal with novels, and they contribute tichly to life. Let us consider the lessons and how they might be presented to do what the General Board has planned.
First of all, the literature teacher must have the right attitude. She herself must be enthusiastic about literature. She must see its values to herself and to her group. She must know from definite contact with it that it is the record of the best that has been thought and said in the world, that there is running all through all the great literature of 746 the world something of the idealism in humanity which (despite periods such as the present which seem to the contrary) keeps humanity striving upward. She must recognize that the chief value we get from a study of literature is a broadening and deepening of our experiences. We are in actual life limited within narrow bounds. Few of us have many great soul-stirring, actual experiences. But it is not so with the vicarious experiences we share with the characters of literature. In this realm, we can share the life of all classes of people in all ages; and so we widen our intellectual horizons by the knowledge we gain, deepen our emotional responses by sharing the joys and sorrows of great characters, learn new ethical principles by recognizing the ideals and dreams which have guided man through the ages. Thus, through these literary experiences, our personalities are developed and our lives are enriched. The teacher will keep in mind not only this constant need in our lives for the enrichment literature can give, but also the fact that there is a special value to be gained from great books at the present time. Now, when the world is in such turmoil, literature can give us the needed relief from the tension of the day's harrowing events. Furthermore, a knowledge of literature which shows us the oneness of life gives usa larger perspective of human events. We see the present in relation to the past and the future. So when we observe that the world has come through other periods of retrogression such as the present, with humanity still retaining that upward drive, we regain a hope for a better  day, for the ultimate triumph of tight.
Besides being enthusiastic about literature, recognizing its relation to life, and seeing the great values it can contribute, the teacher should know the members of her group. She should understand their background, how much formal education they have had, how much literature they know. Perhaps, 'they have little literary background. If so, she must help them to recognize and desire what the lessons have to offer before she presents the material itself. She will want to know their experiences.
This will help her to present work which they most need.
There may be, for instance, individuals in her class who have need of some special type of help that literature can give. I know a college professor who is very much concerned about his sister, who had lived an active life as homemaker, but had never cultivated the habit of reading anything but newspapers and magazines. Now her children are grown and one by one are leaving the home. She has more and more leisure time.
Recently her husband died, so she must adjust to a new life without him as well as without the work she has always done for her children. Her brother said, "If only she enjoyed books, what a blessing it would be to her now!"
Perhaps there are many such women, and literature teachers can open the magical door to the fascinating world of literature for them. AFTER considering herself in relation to her work, and analyzing her group, the teacher comes to the definite subject matter of the course.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
This year we have three novels, each offering many values to those who study them. First, we will want to consider the authors, for we need to know something about them to get the most from what they write.
