[Vol27 | November 1940 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting TeacherThe]

Visiting Teacher MESSAGES TO THE HOME How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home No. 5
The Physical Preparation of the Home (Tuesday, February 4, 1941) "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on the earth is a physical organization as well as a spiritual organization." (Gospel Doctrine, p. 260) AS it is in the Church, so it is in the home?the physical plays an important part and is closely connected with the spiritual. Thoughtful planning and careful management of the physical aspects can be an important factor in creating and encouraging the spiritual. Such things as having meals ready at the proper time, so they will not conflict or interfere with Priesthood activities of husband or sons, having clothing ready on week days as well as on Sundays, lend aid and encouragement to the performance of these duties.
LESSON DEPARTMENT In accepting social engagements or in arranging social affairs, the wife should always consider that the husband's Church duties come first and should not be put aside for other things. The same standard could well be followed by girls and boys in the home. By her interest in the organization of her home and home activities, a mother may make her sons and daughters attach great importance to the Priesthood and to the responsibility of the family to help sustain and honor it. President Joseph F. Smith, in 785 speaking of the duties of wives and children, said that they "should sustain the head of the household and encourage him in the discharge of his duties, and do all in their power to aid him in the exercise of the rights and privileges which God has bestowed upon the head of the home." (Gospel Doctrine, p. 360) Home Discussion Helps It is important in home planning that the really vital things should be kept foremost. Non-essentials that do not bear directly on the spiritual and physical wellbeing of the family are the things that should be neglected if anything must be.