[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | September | Issue: 6 | Title: IN RURAL ENGLAND. | Author: Unknown]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XLII.

	AND Mr. Harrison sitting there beside
Mrs. Bland under the great pines in the
dense forest only a little distance from what
is now one of the largest cities in the East,
told her of his first love—when as many a
man before and since has, he loved des-
perately a woman older than himself. Like
the boy in Byron’s Dream.

“These two, a maiden and a youth, were there
Gazing—the one on all that was beneath
Fair as herself, but the boy gazed on her;
And both were young, and one was beautiful;
And both were young, yet not alike in youth.
As the sweet moon in the horizon’s verge,
The maid was on the eve of womanhood;
The boy had fewer summers, but his heart
Had far outgrown his years, and to his eye
There was but one beloved face on earth.
And that was shining on him; he had look’d
Upon it till it could not pass away;
He had no breath, no being, but in hers;
She was his voice, he did not speak to her,
But trembled on her words; she was his sight,
For his eye followed hers, and saw with hers,
Which color’d all his objects;—he had ceased
To live within himself; she was his life,
The ocean to the river of his thoughts,
Which terminated all; upon a tone,
A touch of hers, his blood would ebb and flow,
And his cheek change tempestuously—his heart
Unknowing of its cause of agony.
But she in these fond feelings had no share:
Her sighs were not for him, to her he was
Even as a brother—but no more; ’twas much,
For brotherless she was, save in the name
Her infant friendship had bestow’d on him;
Herself the solitary scion left
Of a time-honor’d race.”

	This was almost literally true in the case
of Robert Harrison. He confessed to Mrs.
Bland that he had no assurance of the love
of Clarice Courtney he had loved her as an
object enshrined, too good and pure to be
like other mortals, and when Sir Edward
Hilliard was accepted by her, he had
stormed and raged like one bereft of reason
and nearly broken his mother’s heart.
Afterwards they went abroad and there in
a foreign land his mother died; these two
great sorrows had so embittered his life
that, he had never really cared to mark out
any future, and no woman had ever
awakened an emotion of love in him from
that time until he saw his cousin’s daugh-
ter in the ball room in London, and it took
him back to the days of his boyhood. He

[Column 2]
recounted to Mrs. Bland many incidents of
his early life, but in it all she could not
discern in the least any return of his un-
bounded affection from the cousin whom
he so passionately adored, recompense for
the supreme affection he lavished upon her,
it was the ideal fancy of a boy for a mature
woman; yet she did not express her feel-
ings lest it might wound him, she waited
to see what he would say to her.
	“And now my story is told I have laid
bare my heart to you concealing nothing,”
said he. “What have you to say to me.”
You know, “for quickly comes such know-
ledge,” that I loved you from the first with
a devotion founded upon principle, I saw
your superiority to other women, even to
Lady Anna, I noted your strength of
character, your integrity to the family of
your kinsman, I heard you spoken of too, by
men, men of rank in the world, during that
London season, men who look below the
surface of things; and again and again your
uncle’s solicitors in London eminent barris-
ters, when Clair was with me and we were
arranging his affairs declared they had
never seen a girl like that Miss Conway—
such capacity, such judgment, such execu-
tive ability, they were astonished that you
had not been left equal in the will with his
own daughter. You have the Hilliard
character inherited from your mother, and
though I hated Sir Edward for carrying off
my cousin, yet from what I know of Eng-
lish history I am forced to acknowledge that
with all his faults, he had good blood in his
veins, the best blood of British lions: and I
forgive him now after all these years of
bitterness, and regret my estrangement
from the family, and most of all because
perhaps I might have saved from such a
fate my sweet cousin Anna, her mother’s
sacrifice and then hers, I cannot understand
it.”
	Mrs. Bland had listened to her lover (for
such he really was) while he told the story
she so longed yet dreaded to hear, and now
what answer must she give; she was al-
ready his in fact, if her own heart was the
criterion, she believed his love was honest,
she felt how lonely her life would be if she
should send him away; his arm encircled
her waist, her hand was clasped with tender
manliness, and he repeated the question so
often asked before, “And what have you
to say to me, will you be mine, my wife,
mine forever, to love, to cherish, to protect!”
And still Jane Bland hesitated, “What
more can I say, the devotion of my life,
what still remains, I know I am many
years your senior, but here in this new land,
I will begin a new career, I feel fresh im-
pulses for action, a great future awaits the
people who have settled here, they will
throw off the bondage of the mother coun-
try which oppresses them, there are men
ready to stand on a higher platform, you,
yourself know it, Sidney who has mingled
so much with the common people is aware
that, the sentiment of the country is under-
going a change, it will be a struggle, but it
will end in victory, it will give men of
brains, men of nerve an impetus unheard
of, will you share your fate with mine


[Column 1]
Shall we be united soon, it may be done
quietly, you feel perhaps this is too soon
after what has transpired, believe me Mrs.
Bland I have the utmost respect for the
dead, for Doctor Bland, and for his memory
—you shall never have reason to doubt it,
but I am anxious, I have waited long for
this, something seemed to tell me when I
first met you in London, that you would
yet be mine. Clair knows the feelings I
expressed when we were away together,
I dreaded to hear from home, that was why
you so seldom heard from us; but it was
necessary that Clair should come home,
matters of importance required his attention,
and I came to see my cousin, and she is
gone, but you are here and you are free,
if you refuse me now, I cannot stay here I
shall take Sidney and go away I know not
where, he needs the change, but Jane
Bland you will not refuse to take me now
as I am for better or for worse.”
	Jane Bland promised to consider, which
to say the least was decidedly philosophical
for a woman who was actually in love, but
it was in keeping with her whole life. Mr.
Harrison felt assured from her manner that
he was to be accepted and let the matter
pass; in his heart he commended her course,
for she had Conway’s future to think of
which was more to her than her own life.
	Some days went by full of pleasant in-
tercourse, long rambles, and drives, the
weather was fine, and out-door companion-
ship suited well the mood of love-making.
During one of these excursions, Mrs. Bland
inadvertently admitted to Mr. Barrington
that her future would be a blank unless
associated in some way with his uncle.
Sidney lost no time in repeating it, and the
matter was soon settled. Meantime Con-
way had become so endeared to Mr. Harri-
son that he was like his own son, and he
seemed to take the matter for granted. The
parties were so independently situated that
the matter was in their own hands, and Sid-
ney Barrington performed the marriage cere-
mony in the primitive little meeting house
where he had preached from the time of
settling in the colony. Only the few people
who had known them best were present
and there was no gaiety or wedding festivi-
ities whatever. A quiet winter followed,
and during the time letters had been inter-
changed by them with Clair and Maitland,
and as early as the weather would admit
the party set sail for England, to transact
some necessary business and to see Anna’s
children. Lady Walton was very desirous
of seeing Mrs. Harrison, and all things
considered it was a great satisfaction to
Mrs. H. herself, to visit Hilliard Castle and
take with her the little son, who had been
born on the estate. There were many
pleasant things connected with this visit to
her beautiful English home—many mem-
ories recalled, and visions of the past
awakened, that were sweet but sad. Some-
times she trembled lest the happiness she
experienced in being the wife of one she
loved so intensely should be only transient.
	Lady Walton had once reminded her how
passionately her husband had in his youth
loved Lady Hilliard, and added ‘‘it drove
him almost distracted when she married
Sir Edward, and to think after that he
could ever be in love, and with some one
so unlike I can scarcely credit my senses
when I see him with you, indeed it is
paralyzing, but he is a charming friend,
and so clever and brilliant, and withal his
eccentricities so fond of children. And Mr.
Barrington how I should like to hear him

[Column 2]
preach here, as he did in the colony, so
earnest, so reverent, I begin to feel the
need of some religious consolation.”
	“And why then do you not try to look
into the Scriptures and comprehend the say-
ings of the Savior, there is comfort and
strength in his words. Mr. Barrington
would help you if you would listen, he
would teach you, and you would find peace,
abiding peace.”
	“It is too late for me to accept a new
faith, I must still cling to my own, though
I do like the simple way these dissenters
have of feeding the people the word of life
and salvation.”
	After much more conversation about re-
ligion Lady Walton surprised Mrs. Harri-
son by saying she was sure her days were
numbered, and she begged her to obtain
Maitland’s consent to take the children
back to America, where they might have
the simple home training she knew Mrs.
Harrison would give them. It was exactly
what Jane Harrison was wishing and long-
ing for, and when she talked it over with
her husband, he began interceding almost
immediately, and Maitland needed very
little persuading.
	Mrs. Harrison had been much at the
castle but she had also been in Devonshire
to see the old home of her husband who
took much delight in showing Sidney as
well as his wife over the places he had
been familiar with in his boyhood and in
early manhood ere his life had been soured
by melancholy. Only a few remained of
those he remembered though many there
were who knew him and were glad to see
him among them again and urged him to
remain, but no inducement could be offered
that would have tempted either of the
three to settle down in England after hav-
ing lived only for so short a period in the
“new world,” and yet for the time being
the green fields the beautiful parks, the
verdant meadows, the luxuriant hedges,
the grand old oaks, had a charm that awaken-
ed emotions that touched the tenderest
chords of affection for their native land.
	After having spent the lovely summer
reveling in the beauties of the country,
Mr. and Mrs. Harrison began preparations
for their return, Clair Hilliard was to go
with them on a visit, and the children Ed-
ward and Anna Walton were to be com-
mitted to their care for a time; no definite
compact was made; Maitland assured Mrs.
Harrison he would come for them soon, be-
fore they had forgotten him. Edward was
a fine stalwart fellow and little Anna was
beautiful as a dream.
	Lady Walton was really much affected
when the time came for parting with them
and affirmed over and over again that she
should never see them more; her whole
manner of life was changed she had become
deeply religious and though she still clung
to her own established church yet she en-
joyed much more the simple faith of Sid-
ney Barrington.
	Mrs. Harrison’s leave-taking of the old
castle, (though there had been all sorts of
repairs and many changes made) was al-
most as sorrowful as on first leaving it to
embark for America. She went over and
through it with the children describing the
rooms and relating what had transpired of
interest to them, trying to impress upon
them the grandeur and significance of the
ancestral home of their mother and grand-
parents. There was a great change in the
surroundings even more than in the house
itself, for Clair had brought home with

[Column 3]
him ideas of other countries in the style
and material of furnishings, and poor old
Mrs. Burke who was very loyal to all that
was English, and hated foreigners, though
she loved Clair in spite of his gipsy blood,
as she called it, could not help expressing
herself emphatically to Mistress Jane
Harrison, (she persisted in using her given
name) “these new fangled wicker bamboo
things such trumpery, nothing solid or sub-
stantial about them cheap finery, the master
says they’re expensive luxuries, I hate to
see them, give me oak and mahogany that
look elegant instead of these, and such
showy curtains and hangings, drapery in-
deed yellow and red, whoever heard of it
in England, a lot of fal-de-rols, but he can’t
help it poor fellow it all comes of his
Italian blood, its sure to crop out, but his
voice, it makes up for everything, and such
a sweet temper, strange too, more like a
woman,” and Mrs. Burke after this long
harangue looked at Mrs. Harrison as much
as to say, and what have you to say in his
defence, but his cousin only quietly looked
Mrs. Burke full in the face and said, “your
master is in every way worthy his title, and
if he chooses to gratify his own taste in
and about the place there is no one to say
him nay.”


