[The Spirit of Motherhood by Hazel McAllister]

spirit of unselfish motherhood must become a part of us. No love in all the world equals the love of a true mother. President Joseph F.
Smith said that no love in all the world comes nearer to being like the love of God.
Knowing this, I think most mothers do not realize how much their influence affects the destiny of their children, an influence which reaches into eternity! Upon Latter-day Saint mothers the obligation is tenfold because of their enlightened understanding of the gospel standards. If all mothers in the world realized and put to use their potential power in influencing for righteousness the lives of their children through love and kindness, persuasion and example, what a different world this would bel Greatness in character comes when human needs are rightfully met and when the human soul may develop secure in love and understanding. > Lealot Ora Lee Parthesius At eighty-odd, and nearly blind, Her hours of joy could lie behind; But, leaning hard upon her cane, She dares the dark and wind and rain As eagerly she goes to meet The future with its bittersweet. 
Trilogy Mirla Greenwood Thayne Yesterday My heart conceived a song one yesterday; I walked alone where beauty beckoned me, And saw a field of iris washed by rain, Rain that left jeweled mist on leaf and tree. "Beauty," I said, "gives birth to words that sing, So I shall write a trilogy of spring." I saw a rainbow arched across the sky, A radiant trellis, an ethereal line, Curved in majesty, and heaven bent, Linking the mortal with the great Divine. A meadow lark in sudden rhapsody, Made haste to lend my song a melody. And soon a gray-veiled earth knew sudden light, Clouds vanished as if by Supreme command, Hills were transformed from mauve to sunset rose, As if an artist could not stay his hand. Here was more beauty than my heart could hold, Would I know peace until my song was told? Today I grasp my pen to give birth to my song, To fashion words into a lyric sweet, When suddenly I hear from corridor The pattering of tiny baby feet. "A story, Mommy, come and read to me." Tonight, a lullaby my song will be.
"I'm hungry, Mom." The supper hour brings
An anxious brood in need of daily bread;
My hands must deftly spread my humble board,
Reality must sway my dream-filled head.
My song can wait. Tomorrow I shall sing,
Of wooded hills, and flowers, and rains of spring.
My own sweet lyric of just fourteen years
Comes to my chair and, kneeling by my side,
She chatters on about so many things;
I must take time to love, direct, and guide.
Another day my trilogy shall find
Birth from my heart, transition from my mind.
Tomorrow
No longer do my halls resound the noise
Of baby feet and "bustin'-bronco" boys,
My lyric into sonnethood has grown,
And has a house and garden of her own.
The laughter and the songs of yesterday
Are echoes from the cherished days gone by.
But still in spring, the iris bids the rain,
A rainbow highway links the earth with sky.
Yet when the birds fly homeward on the wing,
My heart conceives another song of spring.
Page 321