[Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, May 1,-and May 15, 1891 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS" A PLEASANT PARTY: A very pleasant party of ladies met by invitation at the residence of Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith on the evening of the second of May to cele- 'brate the sixty-ninth anniversary of her birth. All those assembled were particular friends of hers, and some of them had been associated with her for many long years in labors of love; several of these sisters had been acquaintances or neighbors away back in Nauvoo in the early days of the Church. "Sister Bathsheba" as she is best known, has had in many respects a serene and happy life, owing mainly to her even temperament and cheerful disposition. She is one of those well-organized or evenly balanced persons, that little things do not ruffle, and that even great troubles do not overwhelm with doubt and melancholy. She has passed through trials that many women would have sunk under, and yet she always looked upon them with heroism and fortitude, and now in her seventieth year, she stands alone, as independent as the evergreen tree, youthful in her spirit, cheerful in demeanor and gentle and gracious as though her grand and noble husband were still by her side to lean upon, though he has long since passed to "the other side." RETURN LOVE They had a quarrel and she sent His letters back next day, His ring and all his presents went To him without delay. "Pray send my kisses back to me," He wrote, "Could you forget them?" She answered speedily that he Must come himself and get them. SPEECH BY E. R. SNOW: Eighth meeting of Relief Society, Sugar House Ward, July 29, 1868. Miss Eliza R.
Snow being present by invitation, addressed the sisters as follows: '""We have met in the capacity of a Relief Society. I consider this a matter of great importance. A Society of this kind has always existed whenever the priesthood has been upon the earth, and the allusion of the Apostle to the Elect Lady as recorded in the New Testament, means the one who presided over each Society in his day. The duties of the members of this Society are extensive, our minds are liable to be led off, it is necessary that we meet together often to stir up our minds to diligence; this organization gives us an opportunity to meet legally, it is not a mere plaything but a sacred holy duty, under the direction of your Bishop, do not run to him with every trifle. —S. E. Angell, Sec. RECOMPENSE Woarthless the gold while yet untried by fire; The finest statue grows by many a blow. He who has much to meet may much aspire, He of the even way must stay below.  | (s << MBs. FRANK A. JOHNSON (Edna Evans), prominent Salt Lake musician, received notable recognition when Salt Lake was chosen as the place to hold the twenty-sixth national biennial convention of the National Federation of Music Clubs and the' Music Festival in May. Mrs.
Johnson is largely responsible for bringing this convention to Salt Lake as she was the Utah representative at the committee meeting last May when this decision was made. Six hundred Relief Society Singing Mothers and twelve hundred singers from the Mutual Improvement Association, besides a large group of their dancers, the Tabernacle Choir, Utah State Symphony, and Grant Johannesen, nationally famous pianist from Utah, will participate. In addition, there will be famous national choruses, soloists, ensembles, and national and international speakers.
Four thousand dollars will be distributed in awards.
This will be a cultural highlight in Utah. RETURNING to the Metropolitan Opera after ten years' absence, Kirsten Flagstad, at fifty-five, received a tremendous ovation in her greatest role, Isolde. The most famous Wagnerian soprano of her generation, she still has an incomparable voice, which 'shows no decline.
Although she has been a singer all her life, she did not de velop her astonishing vocal power until she was thirty-seven. Her voice, becoming thus powerful, lost none of its heart-stirring beauty. She just recently announced her retirement from opera.
ANNA PRINCE REDD (Mrs.
James Monroe Redd), wellknown and gifted Latter-day Saint author of two Relief Society Magazine serials ("Tomorrow's Cup" and "Where Trails Run Out,") and many poems, passed away March 17,
1951. She has particularly enriched the literary heritage of her people with her stories and poems of the San Juan country of Southeastern
Utah.
FT was interesting to note the change of sentiment in the words of the old Hebrew prayer, "Blessed art thou, O Lord, who hast not made me a woman," and the recent statement of Rabbi Maurice Eisendrath, "There is nothing in the practice and principles of liberal Judaism which precludes the possibility of a woman serving as a rabbi." The rabbi, president of the union of American - Hebrew Congregations
(Reform) was approving the appointment of the widow of Rabbi
William Ackerman to act as rabbi in her husband's place, at least for the present. She is the first woman in America to hold rabbinical authority.
Page 307

EDITORIAL
VOL 38
MAY 1951
NO. 5 cJhe Safe uiaroor of aii ome
This is the true nature of home — it is the place of Peace; the shelter, not only from all injury, but from all terror, doubt, and division. — John Ruskin
•HPO many of us has come the poignant experience of returning to our childhood home, after long years of absence. And we have wondered, seeing again the familiar place, the guarding trees, the stone walk— we have wondered what has made this spot the most precious of all the earth. Seeing the walls and the windows, the long-loved doors, we have sought to comprehend the ineffable and elusive spirit of home.
It is, as the poet Oliver Wendell
Holmes so well expressed the thought, "Where we love is home, home that our feet may leave, but not our hearts." And so, in returning home, we come to that place which has never been forgotten; we return to that bright memory which has held us firm and has directed our journeys in far places.
Even as our footsteps echo on the walk, we note the tall trees that father planted, the fence he built with the glad ring of his hammer pounding the nails. We see the oval space in the lawn where mother planted tall blue delphiniums, bordered with a ribbon of yellow pansies. And if our blessings have been great, we may see the place where grandfather planted the vegetable garden, and that small fragrant plot where grandmother tended the green herbs.
Page 308
One opens the door at the threshold of home with a pause that is full of memories— and they are deep and moving memories because they have shaped our lives, and they will be with us forever. One opens the door quietly, remembering when mother was there, how beautiful it was, warm with love and welcoming.
How many times have we returned in the projection of thoughts and longings to this place, for there will never come to us an experience more heartfelt and more lasting than returning home to mother, for therewith we return to peace, and understanding, and quiet.
Remember how it was with this room, when father came home at night— the swift clatter of children's feet, shrill voices from the stairs,
"Daddy Daddy " and the race to reach him first. Remembering how strong and how tender father was, it is no wonder that his influence has gone with us wherever we have been since the time of childhood, that his strength has made us strong, and his tenderness has given us compassion for others.
How truly are we the glad inheritors of those qualities of which our father seldom spoke, but which he exemplified in his own life. How truly are we blessed for this— love and tenderness are never lost. They are the everlasting heritage.

EDITORIAL
309
How long in our lives the childhood home endures! Remember how quickly we grew up, how we left the home shelter one by one.
Remember that there was so much more than words in mother's farewell. There was that silent unity of the family, which is one of the choicest gifts that life and eternity have to offer. Mother knew that we would never really leave home, that we would never really leave her.
She knew that we would return often in spirit there, and that we would wait eagerly for the time of actual reunion within the welcoming walls.
It is a sober thought to know that the homes which we are building today will become the guiding strength and a light of inspiration in the lives of our children. May they return to our homes with the same devotion, and with the precious joy that we have known. Let us never light a lesser lamp within our homes.
-V. P. C.
(Belief
What Shall We (Hold?
Margery S. Stewart
The horsemen thunder now upon the north,
Rage for release against the evening sky,
The shadows faint upon the waiting earth,
The lamps of hope grow dimmer and some die
Now mothers count again their scanty sto re, Men search for stronger weapons while they wait. All the little houses as in fear Seem closer to the earth. The hour is late. What shall we hold against the coming night? For lantern and for food... Against the cold? Against new treasons, and the broken words, The secret places where our lives are sold? Let every heart as one forge spears of hope. Faith still can shatter vaunted Jerichos, Endure again a bitter Valley Forge, Retake a Taejon ravished by the foes Let our love go abroad in dark and rain, Bring the lost to glowing hearths, to bread. He shall not fear the horsemen's raging hooves, Who has the light and by that light is led. Belief Grace Sayre He said he gave no thought to faith, Did not believe in God; Yet every year he stored his seed And each spring turned the sod. Could anything but faith bring hope That seeds would bear their kind? Could he have hope of future fruits And be so blind? She Ancient. Prayer Pansye H. Powell One burden has haunted the song of man From the time when the world was young, Borne on the sighs of war-torn lands And chanted in every tongue. One longing has echoed in every heart, A prayer out of grief and pain: "Give us the power to make men free! Bring peace to the world again!" 'Seek After Shese Things 7
Ruth M. McKay Melbourne Branch, Australian Mission A few weeks ago one of our women investigators questioned me regarding women's activities in the Church. I would like to answer that question. Life, you know, is like climbing a mountain. You know full well that on reaching the Hope there will be unfolded to you, vistas that you never even dreamed of. But as you struggle upwards, pebbles get into your shoes and hurt your feet, briars tear and scratch you, and suddenly you trip and fall, having been unaware of a hidden rock in the ground.
These can be likened to difficulties we meet with in everyday life. The pebble which hurts our feet can be likened to the unkind word, the briar which scratches and tears, the unkind act; and the hidden rock, the covert criticism of leaders. But the stout of heart, obeying the Lord's commandments, and despite their many hurts, follow the path with increased endurance.
Aware of the beauty of life, they look for that beauty in everything they see, even in the things which have been misused against them, the symmetry of the pebble, the form of the briar bush, the color of the rock. So those who are pure in heart toss the pebble from the shoe, bind the bleeding scratches, and lift themselves from the fall upon the hidden rock, and go on their way with peace in their hearts, leaving far behind those who use against them the unkind word, the unkind act, or the covert criticism; for the time they spent in searching for the pebbles and briars, could have been better utilized in climbing the mountain themselves, and those who use these devices of Satan are retarding their own development. As the worthy approach the top, the gloriousness of life is etched before them.
They have progressed so far that the pebbles, the briars, and the rocks cannot be seen amidst the breath-taking panorama which lies before them; and they look back over the way they have come with a sense of completeness permeating their being, fully aware that the way has been long and arduous, and that they have had to develop all their faculties to the fullest in order to reach their goal. It was in accordance with this desire to raise human life to its highest level that the women's organization of the Church, the Relief Society, was formed.
What better way to give service to humanity, than by giving loving administration with gentle hands to the sick—to help the needy—to give a ready hand to those who need to rehabilitate themselves in society—to help our Latter-day Saint families by sending out visiting teachers—by helping each of our sisters develop to the highest degree, through monthly lessons in theology, where we learn of our Lord's work—in culture where we study the best of the world's literature—in music where we gain an appreciation of this lovely gift—in social science, which we can apply to everyday affairs—in our work meetings, held once a month, which provide an opportunity for the younger members to learn the skill of arts and crafts and homemaking under the guidance of the older members. This, then, is the work of the Relief Society—to help in any way we can.... Spiritually—materially—culturally, or practically, anyone desiring to attain the completeness of soul and the highest degree of happiness i in this life. I pray, that we may toss the pebbles of unkind words from our lives, brush aside the briars of unkind acts that tear and scratch us, and even though we falter because of unjust criticism, that we may straighten up again, and through obedience to the Lord's commandments, set out for our goal, giving a helping hand, without stint, wherever possible. Page 310
Floral Arrangements for the Home Inez R. Allen S there anything more delightful for us to bring into our homes than the beautiful flowers our Creator has so generously bestowed upon us? His garden covers the whole earth. We have but to open our eyes to find its beauty. Each season brings a wealth of material challenging us to use and enjoy it. Any time of year, if we walk out into the nearby woods and fields, along the streams and by the roadside, we will find the rarest of gems. Weeds of various forms, colors, and textures, are just waiting there to be | transformed into some pleasing and effective design. The mullein plant, with its velvety green leaves, if placed in a low flat dish or in a pillow vase, becomes a thing of beauty. By the roadside. During the summer its long, flat leaves and seeds are a pretty green, sometimes with a rosy tint. In autumn it turns a beautiful russet. Not only does this weed make a beautiful arrangement by itself, but very often it may be used to give height to some of the loveliest designs. Another roadside weed is the "'horsetail,'' or joint grass. Varying lengths arranged in a round, flat dish with a flamingo ceramic, are lovely in a wall niche or window, on the buffet, or at the end of your dining table. The grasses, both short and tall, the leaves, rocks, reeds, bits of gnarled branches or roots, will weep if passed by unnoticed. Even the dry desert lands present their rare specimens to be used in some pleasing arrangement. There is the dock » How fortunate are those who live in the more productive parts of this beautiful garden where variety and color vie for prominence. 'Their possibilities are unlimited. Yes, the world is full of beautiful materials for us to use. If we live where the cold winters make it impossible for us to have a garden the year around, we can supplement by growing plants indoors. Geraniums are easy to grow and give us much color. Their round leaves may be the very shape you want to give balance to your arrangement. There are the ivy, begonia, little marguerites, Philodendron, Chinese evergreen, and Aspidistra. An allgreen arrangement using some of these leaves and vines will delight you. A combination of the simplest flowers and leaves will give pleasing and striking results. Flower arrangements in the home seem to be a necessary part of our everyday living. 'They help us to translate the mood of the moment into something we can enjoy, and often supply that very touch for which we have been looking. They can express personality and taste. The arrangement becomes the highlight in the room. 'Therefore, we will have better results if we first select its position. If it is to be placed on the piano, it needs to be bold and large, made of heavy material so that it will seem to belong there. On an occasional table a dainty arrangement would be in scale. 'The long lines of the bookcase suggest far-reaching branches, or trailing vines, and the arrangePage 31] 

312 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 ment would look much better placed near the end rather than in the center. The mantel could be treated much the same, unless there are candlesticks or other objects of balance at the ends, then the arrangement would need to be symmetrically balanced. If it is to be placed before a mirror, the rear view must be pleasing.
Another formal treatment for the mantel would be to make identical or twin arrangements. It is most satisfactory.
Suppose you wish to make a design for a table placed between two windows, or between a door and window. 'This narrow wall space would call for tall vertical lines with large, dark-colored flowers placed low in the arrangement to give proper interest and balance.
Leaves of yucca, cattail, bearded iris, and tall grasses may be used to produce these tall, reaching lines.
After you decide upon the placement of the bouquet and the lines that will best fit that placement, you will be concerned as to color.
Flowers that harmonize with the color scheme of the room or some prominent piece of furniture will give it relationship. Try not to have orphan arrangements. The next problem, perhaps, would be the kind of container to use. We need not have expensive or highly decorated vases, bowls, or trays; something plain and substantial for heavy material, something pretty and dainty for smaller designs. A well-proportioned container is either higher than the width, or broader than the height.
Besides earthenware, containers may be of porcelain, crystal, wood, and such metals as brass, silver, pewter, bronze, or aluminum. Why not use a grace- FLORAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE HOME 313 ful but simple basket on your porch or in your game room?
Simple forms and neutral colors in dishes and vases will make your efforts more successful.
Oval dishes, shallow, but with straight sides, or the pillow vase, which resembles a brick set on end, are among the best.
Flaring jars do not do as much for your arrangement as do the straight-sided round ones.
Flowers with delicate texture, such as Camellias, Gardenias, and roses, would be enhanced in a lovely silver bowl or one made of very fine china or crystal.
The container becomes part of the design and harmonizes with it in size, color, and texture. The arrangement must carry the interest, not the container. Often the color of some part of the arrangement will be repeated in the vase. If just one color of flower is used, the container may carry that same tint or shade, or be in a color that is complementary.
One of the best aids to flower arrangement is a suitable holder. It is a must for good arrangements.
There are many kinds in various colors, weights, and materials on the market. The needle-point frog serves best for many things and especially for predominant stem lines. For thick-stemmed branches and flowers a wire holder gives good support. A good flower holder should be heavy and rustproof. Experiment to find the one which serves you best.
The flowers are apt to tip over if the frog is not made secure. This can be done by using modeling clay, which does not dissolve in water.
Your florist will sell this to you.
Until the frog is securely placed, care must be taken to have both the container and the frog perfectly dry.
For vases, chicken wire makes a very good holder, or a square of one-half inch mesh wire cloth rolled or bent and wedged vertically into the vase will do. Allow for space between the folds for stems or branches. Foliage is sometimes crowded into the vase to hold the stems, but if it is to be used for more than a few hours, the water will become polluted and the flowers will die.
We make flower arrangements for two reasons: to feel the joy of handling cut flowers and to create beautiful pictures rich in meaning.
The joy we get in arranging flowers cannot be realized without a certain amount of patient practice. Lose yourself in projecting the mood you wish to portray. Let your emotions sink deep within you. Your results will be a thrill.
The Omnipotent has sown his name on the heavens in glittering stars; but upon the earth he planteth his name in tender flowers. — Richter

For the Strength of the Hills
Chapter 4
Mabel Harmer
Synopsis: Camilla Fenton, an orphan come over and make fires/' decided from Santa Monica, California, comes to §tan? poking paper and wood into
Crandall Idaho, to teach, and marries the range, "or we could have Stopped
Stanley Rodgers- in the spring when school i- » is out. Camilla is disappointed in their tnere for dinner, big, ugly farmhouse, but all summer she "Yes, we could, she agreed. Now cans fruits and vegetables, and in the fall that he had put the idea into her she and Stanley go to California for a visit head> sne decided that he had been with Camilla's Aunt Lillian. extremely thoughtless to bring her into the house cold and hungry
THEY arrived home from Cali- when they could so easily have fornia on a gray day in early stopped in at his mother's for a hot
November, when there was meal, neither the majestic whiteness of And the house looked so awful winter nor the green and purple of with two week's dust on the furnisummer to relieve the monotony of ture, especially in the gray Novemthe landscape. ber light, or half light. Maybe they
"I guess it looks sort of bleak to should have stayed in California for you, after all the sunshine and flow- the rest of the winter. Aunt Lillian ers," suggested Stan as they drove would have been glad to have them, along the country road. Maybe they would do that next
'"Sort of," Camilla admitted. "It winter. The thought cheered her really is the worst time of the year, somewhat, although she knew well isn't it? But we'll have plenty to enough that Stan and her aunt do to take our minds off the land- couldn't possibly spend several scape— if they need taking off. I'm months in the same house. Two simply bursting with plans for the weeks had been enough of a strain, house, now that I don't have to After a dinner of thick steaks grow a million things and then stick which Stan fried, and stringbeans them in cans. And another thing, and peaches from their own store, you can start paying me proper at- she felt in a happier frame of mind, tention. You've hardly looked at Especially when he had built a fire me all summer while you had those in the grate and pulled up two spuds on your mind." shabby chairs, shutting out the rest
'"Lady, I'm certainly going to of the room, make up for lost time," he asserted, "I must be an awfully primitive putting one arm around her shoul- creature," she said. "Warmth and ders. f°°d seem to make all the difference
The rosy glow that enveloped her between being happy and contented lasted until they stepped into the or feeling like a banshee." cold, dismal kitchen. Tm attracted to some of the "I guess that I should have sent same myself," he agreed, stretching a note to the folks and had someone out his long legs to the fire. "Give
Page 314

FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE HILLS
315 me three good meals a day, plenty of firewood, the most beautiful redheaded wife in the world , and I don't ask for much else."
"Modest creature," she laughed. Then, looking around at the shadows flickering on the walls, she proposed, "Let's go to town tomorrow and buy paint. I think that I want light blue for this room and bright flowered chintzes for the furniture. The window will have to go until next summer, of course. We can't go cutting holes in the house in this weather."
"You talk of paint and chintzes at a moment like this?" he sighed. "All right. If you have a one-track mind I suppose you have a one-track mind, and I'll have to get used to it. We'll go shopping for paint tomorrow."

SHE went to bed glowing with enthusiasm and plans for working on the house through all the winter months. When she put her feet to the floor the next morning, a wave of nausea sent her back under the blankets. The odor of frying bacon, which ordinarily would have brought her out with a bound, only made her turn her face to the wall, as if by so doing she could also cut out the smell.

A minute later Stan appeared in the doorway to announce, "Breakfast is served, Madam. And if you don't get the heck out of there, I'll put a glass of cold water down your neck."

His gaiety made her feel even worse, and she muttered, "Stop it! I'm sick."

"Sick," he repeated. "You can't be. Those steaks weren't as bad as that."

"Please don't joke," she begged. "And shut the door so that I can't smell that bacon."

He shut the door quickly and came to her bed. "What is it, then?" he asked anxiously. "Shall I phone for a doctor?"

"No, we can see him when we go into town for the paint. Anyway, there'll be all kinds of time. I'm probably going to have a baby."

"A baby!" he shouted. "Jumping grasshoppers! You don't mean it!"

"I rather think I do. And I thought that prospective fathers greeted such an announcement with considerable sentiment and not with 'Jumping grasshoppers.'"

"Jumping grasshoppers!" he repeated. "Imagine us with a redheaded boy! Blackie's colt will be just right for him to ride in a year or two. What do you think you'd like to eat? Name it and I'll get it, if I have to go to China."

"Some fruit perhaps and a couple of soda crackers," she smiled. "We'll send to China later."

She felt better after she had eaten. There was an exuberance, in fact, that she had never imagined even the prospects of a baby would bring. They would have lots of children—sons and daughters who would grow up fine and splendid, like the country about them. The old house would not be too big, and it must not be ugly. It was the beginning of new and wonderful things all the way through.

After lunch they rode into town and bought the bright colors to paint the "Mexican" kitchen.

"There's no need of getting more at one time than we can use," she said, "as long as the store is only a couple of hours away." Later on she was to find she had made a most fortunate decision.

The next morning Stan brought her breakfast to bed, and she felt reasonably well after she had eaten and dressed. "Bring on your paint," she said, after the dishes were washed, "I can't believe that we are really starting."

"I bought two brushes," he announced. "You get to do all the medium places, and I do the high and low. That's to prove that I love you and that I can reach the farthest."

"Nobility at its finest flower," she agreed as he handed her a can of paint. She took three strokes across the wall by the side of the window and put the can down quickly. "O-o-oh, I can't bear it!" she cried, running to the door. "Another whiff of this paint and I'd die without a struggle."

STAN closed up the cans. "You take the car and go down to mother's," he suggested. "I'll do the painting. I'll have at least two walls done by the time you get back. Shall I do one yellow and the other red?"

"I don't care," she flung back at him, as she grabbed her coat and went out.

When she returned, just about dinner time, the smell of paint was worse than ever. Almost as hard to bear was the thought that this meant further postponements of her dreams for doing anything to the house.

"First it's too much summer work and no money. Now it's this," she wailed. "Next summer it will be too much work again. Do you think we'll ever get it done?"

"You might go away for a month while I do it," he suggested.

Camilla considered it briefly, then shook her head. "No, I'm afraid that wouldn't work. Where would I go? I can't go chasing back to California again. Anyway I don't want to. Maybe we can do it later in the year. And, in the meantime, I can work on some slip covers. They'll make a big difference in the living room."

They agreed that he would at least have to finish the kitchen. "And the back bedroom must be made into a pink and white nursery, no matter what," she declared. "I can go down to Mother Rodgers while you do that. You can do a few dabs each day and air it out good before I come back."

Following this method he managed to get the kitchen and nursery done, and that was all. Camilla made slip covers for the lumpy couch and two chairs in the living room and then couldn't decide whether they looked better or worse against the nondescript walls. She finally concluded that anything would be an improvement over the way the room looked when they first moved in.

She felt better as winter gave way to spring and took considerable pleasure in working out in the flower garden. Stan never went to town or to one of his neighbors that he didn't bring back a start of something or other, and by May she had pansies and iris blooming, with many other plants showing great promise.

Stan took over the vegetable garden, with the help of his young brother Mickey, and as for canning,