[President George Albert Smith by Joseph Fielding Smith]

President George Albert Smith President George Albert Smith A Tribute President Joseph Fielding Smith Of the Council of the Twelve HAKESPEARE in his play Julius Caesar ascribes to Mark Antony the following tribute as he stands over the fallen body of Brutus after the battle of Philippi: His life was gentle, and the elements So mix'd in him, that Nature might stand up And say to all the world "This was a man!" With far better grace and truth this can be said of President George 
Albert Smith. He was a man in the full sense in which Shakespeare used this expression. In character and nobility he stood out pre-eminently among his fellows. But President Smith was not only a man by all the critical measurements that could be applied to him by human standards; he was a son of God! Is this blasphemy? In the eyes of the ignorant and the ungodly this statement may be so considered.
Such was the accusation brought against PRESIDENT GEORGE ALBERT SMITH the Redeemer of this world by his enemies.
Because he declared to them that he was sent by his Father and was verily his Only Begotten Son, they took up stones to stone him. His answer to them was that the scriptures so declared it; and not only this regarding himself, but to all others: "Is it not written in your law, I said, Ye are gods? If he called them gods, unto whom the word of God came, and the scripture cannot be broken; Say ye of him, whom the Father hath sanctified, and sent into the world, Thou blasphemest; because I said, I am the Son of God?" Moreover, to Adam was this truth first made known and the Lord said to him, "And thou art after the order of him who was without.
Beginning of days or end of years from all eternity to all eternity. Behold, thou art one in me, a son of God; and thus may all become my sons. Amen." He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his God, and he shall be my son (Rey. 21:7). President George Albert Smith never faltered no matter how difficult the task, and like Nephi he knew that when the Lord called, he would prepare the way that his purposes could be accomplished.
Every commandment he.
Sacredly observed. He loved his brethren with a righteous love and honored and respected them, each in his given calling. He kept the second great commandment as faithfully as any man I ever knew. His thoughts were 293 constantly employed in the interest of the wayward whom he tried to bring into a better way of life. He never spoke evil of any man; although he deplored the actions of the wicked, he was ever ready to extend the hand of forgiveness to them if they would repent. To him all men were his brothers, children of God created in his image. He filled all the requirements of divine law in the visiting of the sick, extending the hand of mercy to the wayward, comforting those who mourned, cheering the depressed, and in doing good to all men. In all my long acquaintance with him, which dates as far back as memory goes, I never heard a vulgar expression, an unclean word, come from his lips. His friends were numberless and were spread over the four quarters of the earth. He may have had some enemies, for this is the heritage of every righteous man; but if there were such, they were so without justification, and the only reason that could be given for such a thing is that there are some who hate the truth and all those who endeavor to live it. His testimony of the 'Truth was perfect. He knew that there is a God in heaven; that Jesus Christ is his Only Begotten Son in the flesh. 'That Joseph Smith was in very deed a prophet and that he was called to open and stand at the head of this glorious last dispensation of the fulness of times. He never faltered in this testimony and bore it to the great and small, to kings and princes, presidents and 294 potentates, without fear or favor. To him all were alike, the rich and the poor, the great and the small— all the children of God. 
Like Abou Ben Adhem he was one who loved his fellow men, and his name has found its proper place written in the Lamb's Book of Life. ~~. Sirst Presidency Reorganized ON Monday, April 9, 1951, at a solemn assembly—the sixth and concluding session of the 121st annual conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints—President David Oman McKay was sustained as the ninth President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Also sustained were Elder Stephen L Richards as First Counselor and Elder Joshua Reuben Clark, Jr. As Second Counselor in the First Presidency. President McKay and his two counselors have proved themselves great and inspired leaders and have endeared themselves to Church membership over their long years of service. Elder Joseph Fielding Smith was sustained as the President of the Quorum of the Twelve. President Smith has been acting head of the Quorum of the Twelve since last October. He is recognized and esteemed as a true servant of the Lord, untiring in the discharge of his duties.

The procedure followed in voting was in the manner prescribed by President John Taylor, third President of the Church. The voting for the First Presidency, Council of the Twelve, and the Presiding Patriarch was by quorums from the First Presidency down to the lesser Priesthood and then by the membership of the Church present, standing and signifying their approval by their uplifted hands. The voting for the other General Authorities, general officers, and auxiliary boards was in the usual manner by the uplifted hands of the seated congregation.

The conference, which was adjourned on Saturday to hold the funeral services of the great and beloved leader President George Albert Smith, was one of the most unusual ones ever held. The historic Tabernacle was filled to capacity and thousands participated in the proceedings through television and radio. The proceedings were characterized by a spirit of love and selflessness to be found in no other assemblies in the world today. The spirit of the Lord was present in power and the solemnity of the concluding session and the inspiration of the entire conference have etched indelibly upon the hearts of Latter-day Saints that this is indeed the Church of Jesus Christ.