Prohibition By Dr. George W. Middleton UR cause is not lost, though it may be for a time in eclipse. As long as the controversy between right and wrong remains in the world, no righteous cause will ever go down in permanent defeat. Perhaps the friends of prohibition were too precipitate, and pushed their cause with too much speed. Great moral reforms are not accomplished overnight, but people have to grow up to them. For eighty years after the founding of our government the American people wrestled with the vexatious problem of slavery. It seemed to be so integrated into the economic fabric of our system, that there appeared no way out of the difficulty without tearing vital things up by the roots. But people came gradually to the realization of the fact that the moral side of the issue greatly outweighed the financial side of it. America found her conscience and then slavery was doomed. God sent Lincoln to make vocal the awakened conscience of the multitude, and their united effort, with heroic sacrifice, accomplished God's will, and wiped that black spot from our escutcheon. IN a wave of righteous enthusiasm, after the world war, our government wrote the prohibition amendment into the constitution. We who had fought for the cause thought the millennium had arrived, so far as that issue was concerned. But gradually it has dawned upon us that the people were not yet ready for such a sweeping reform. If we had attempted something less absolute, we would probably have done better. Relying on the strong arm of the government for enforcement, the churches, and the other betterment organizations lay down on the job, and failed to back up the fight, and as a consequence we have lost much of the ground we had gained before, and shall have to build most of our foundation over again. In all probability, we will go to the other extreme, and then we will get our real lesson. We have turned like the dog to its vomit, and the distressing consequences will soon be upon us. I want the readers of this article to mark my words, and see if I am not a true prophet. I know something whereof I speak because I was in the thick of the fight before. I know the heartlessness and the absolute unscrupulousness of those forces that stand for the sale of liquor. I have seen, as all those people have seen, who lived in the days before prohibition, drunkenness on the wholesale order. We have seen the workman turn his weekly pay check over to the saloon keeper, and leave his wife and children to starve. We have seen riot around the family altar; we have seen weeping women and pauperized children; we have seen men stamped with the image of the brute, instead of the image of the Creator. And we are going to see most of these things again. It makes one's heart ache to think of what is coming to us. We are going to see times when the danger PROHIBITION of driving on the highways will be greatly increased. The United States owns and operates 80% of the automobiles in the world. Gasoline and alcohol do not mix, and many people will learn that lesson in a tragic way. Casualty lists are terrible enough now, but wait until we increase our drunken drivers and see what will happen. For upwards of a century prohibition has been a burning issue in our country. The first state wide prohibition law was enacted in Maine in 1846, at which time a wave of prohibition sentiment swept over the northern states, and held the front of the stage for many decades. The recession of the wave indicated that the movement had proceeded too rapidly, as it did with us in 1917. We had yet to learn that the goal must be won: by slower steps. The south adopted prohibition with enthusiasm, because they realized that the negro with whiskey in him is much more of a menace than when he is sober. It was out of self defense that the southern people enacted their prohibition laws. It was soon noticed that there was a corresponding benefit tio the white race. In localities where local option obtained, savings banks deposits increased, criminal dockets diminished, and alcoholic diseases developed in fewer people. Especially was this true after the constitutional amendment of 1919, which committed the whole United States to the prohibition cause. Any fair minded person knows that these things have been true in Utah, as they 'have in many parts of the United States. In some sections the local sentiment against prohibition has been so strong, that much of its benefit has 219 been annulled. That has been especially true on the eastern seaboard, where there is a large foreign born population. We frankly admit that nation wide prohibition has not been entirely successful; the bootlegger and the proprieter of the speakeasy have been in evidence, and in some localities have flourished; many young people as well as older ones have found means of gratifying their desire for alcoholic beverages; furthermore racketeers have found in the illicit liquor traffic a ready means of working their nefarious trade. We admit all this, but in spite of it assert that conditions have been infinitely better since prohibition than they were before. We have seen few drunken men in the streets, where we used to see many; we physicians have had few cases of delirium tremens or other forms of chronic alcoholism to treat. Every doctor knows that. How many of you who read this article have heard of people of your acquaintance having snakes in their boots? Yet that was a fairly common ailment in the olden day. WE must not loose sight of the fact that our national backdown on the prohibition issue does not take the poison out of alcohol. It is just as harmful as ever to the human body, and its use will be followed by results just as tragic. The habitual drinker develops hobnail liver as every physician knows, and the inside of his stomach is in a condition of congestion that borders on ulceration. That is one of the reasons he craves more liquor. With these organic changes his digestion is naturally impaired, and his body fails to receive the proper amount of nourishment. There is not an organ of his body that fails to be 220 damaged. The life insurance companies refuse to grant him insurance, because they know he is a bad risk; the surgeon fears him because experience has abundantly shown that he has poor vitality, and does not resist infection. Alcohol has a peculiar affinity for the brain. In a few minutes after RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE imbibing an appreciable amount, the mental faculties are altered. There is at first an undue stimulus to be followed by an undue depression. The fine discrimination between right and wrong is impaired. Men do things under the influence of liquor that they would not think of doing in their normal condition. It's the woman who pays through all the long days And nights of horror and fear; It's the woman who pays all her sorrowful days, The tax on the big brewers' beer. It's the children who reap in suffering deep What fathers have selfishly sowed; The Pay Day will come to each poor little home, And children will carry the load. PROHIBITION is probable that the brain never fully recovers itself after a drunken debauch. There is an injury to the delicate mechanism which is never fully compensated. By repetition of the offense the injurious effect accumulates. The brain of a drunkard becomes so shrunken that it fails to fill the cranial cavity nature has provided for it. It is but natural that the mental and moral faculties degenerate with the organ which generates them. The sense of honor and rectitude becomes more and more obtuse, until it is quite in abeyance. The word of a drunkard is not to be relied upon. I once saw a demonstration of the telationship of chronic alcoholic poisoning and the perverted human behavior that resulted from it. One day at the morgue of the great London Hospital a group of dead bodies were brought down for postmortem examination. Among the number was a young intelligent looking fellow. He had a ticket tied to his great toe, which was the badge of the pauper class to which he belonged. I remarked to one of the students, that this young man seemed a superior type to come down in this guise. The answer was that he had been a student of this very school some years previously. He was brilliant of intellect and seemed to have a very promising career ahead of him, but he took to drink and went from bad to worse until he landed in the gutter. He had been honorable and dependable, but he soon ran the gamut. To the lowest depths of moral disintegration. I witnessed the postmortem examination of this body, and shall never forget the way this various organs 221 tallied with the story of his delinquency. The lining of his stomach was as red as fire, and one could imagine that the physical suffering such a condition entailed would be a constant urge for more alcohol to benumb the over-sensitive nerves. There were splotches of fibrous tissue all through his liver and the abdomen was full of fluid which had been dammed back in the portal circulation. His brain was crenated and shrunken in all of its dimensions, and the microscope revealed degeneration in all the big nerve tracts going to the various parts of his body. It was no wonder that he had been physically unfit, and that his moral sense was all perverted. If death had not come to his rescue he would probably have developed insanity as many chronic alcoholics do. He was like an automobile with all of its bearings burned out, and its delicate-machinery rendered useless. Because of the fact that we did not follow up the great victory we won in 1919, by a continuous campaign iof education, we shall have to do most of the work of the bygone decades over again. Our task is not so much one of legislation as it is of education You cannot enforce a law unless the people are converted to the wisdom and necessity of it. There is no time to lose; the forces of evil are gathering for another thrust at the splendid young men and tyoung women of our fair land. Their bodies and souls are at stake; are you willing to enlist as a soldier to help regain the ground we have lost, and push on until we have 'gained the victory?