We Thank You
Again have our Relief Society Officers and members shown their willingness to respond to every call. When liquor bills were introduced into the Utah Legislature petitions were sent out to all the Stakes in Utah with the request that they be returned within a week so as to be taken to the Legislature. The women lost not an hour in sending in their signed petitions. They said many more signatures could have been secured if they had been given more time. Over 60,000 signatures were obtained to the following resolution:
February, 1933.
To the Honorable Legislators of the State of Utah.
Whereas, the use of intoxicating liquor has always been a menace to society, and one of the chief causes of crime and poverty,
And Whereas there is at the present time pending before the Legislature of the State of Utah, the Patterson and Greenhagen joint Resolution providing for the resubmission to the people of the provisions of our State Constitution on the liquor matter, and also the Newman Bill providing for the manufacture and dispensing of liquor by the State of Utah, and also a joint Resolution for the manufacture of beer in the State of Utah, to be sold outside of Utah,
And Whereas we are convinced that the passage of such Bills would not only imperil the well-being of the present generation, but would bring untold misery to the children whom we represent,
Now Be It Resolved by the undersigned representative men and women residing within the area covered by the............................... Ward, in the............................... County, State of Utah, that they are unalterably opposed to the passage of any of the above mentioned Bills or Resolutions,
And Further are unalterably opposed to any Bills or Resolutions which would in any way affect the provisions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of liquor as contained in our State Constitution, or any of the provisions contained in our liquor enforcement laws,
And Be It Further Resolved that a copy of this Resolution be presented to the Legislators of............................... County, Utah, with the names appended to this Resolution.
Respectfully submitted,
This campaign in the interest of Prohibition must go on. People must be educated.