4 Do Not Shun the Fight By Dr. Richard R. Lyman of the Council of the Twelve A Ray of Hope EN may fail but women never! For years I have used this expression repeatedly. And now that the women of the country are combining in their defense of Prohibition and in their efforts to defeat at the polls candidates for office who will not live in accordance with the law, those who have not supported and will not "support, obey and, defend" the Constitution of the United States in accordance with the solemn oath every official of our government is required to take, it begins to look as if success may finally come to our "noble experiment," to our great and commendable cause of Prohibition. Congressmen Warned WE are told through the press that Mrs. Henry W. Peabody, militant chairman of the Women's National Committee for Law Enforcement, has recently warned members of Congress that the women of the nation are organizing "in revolt" to turn wet legislators out of office. Welfare of Children MBS: PEABODY declares that the pending beer bills throughout the country are a menace to the welfare of our 40,000,000 children. She says that women citizens throughout the states are in revolt as normal women always have been and always will be when the welfare of children is in danger. Clamor of the Selfish THE asks legislators which they will do, protect the women and children of the nation or yield to the wet clamor of brewers and self-interested men who would violate the Constitution of the United States on behalf of that habit-forming drug, alcohol. We join with her and her associate workers and say, "Thank God for honest men in our Congress. We pray God to help women remove from office the men who defy Him and who defy the laws of this nation." To You the Women Call WHEN the World War was raging, when the nations of the earth were appealing to the United States for help, Henry Van Dyke in his poem, the "American Flag Song," entitled, "From Glory Unto Glory," wrote the following apostrophe to our glorious flag, the Stars and Stripes:  ONE OF THE TABLETS OF THE SEAGULL MONUMENT “Her faith in Almighty God never wavers” (Se page 201). Mrs. Henry W. Peabody "Thy sister banners hold the line; To thee, dear flag, they call; And thou hast joined them with the sign— The heavenly sign, the victor sign— Of the stars that never fall. CHORUS "All hail to thee, New Glory! 'We follow thee unfurled To write the larger story Of Freedom for the World." And now the women of the nation, including the women of Utah, the women of our Church, those of the Relief Society, of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association and of the Primary, unitedly call, and you, the women of the Church, have joined them, you who never fail. Strong Pioneer Women MEN may fail, but women never! You women folks, look at that picture preserved in everlasting bronze on the south side of our Seagull Monument. The crickets and the grasshoppers have come, and the crops have been destroyed as completely as if they had been burned by fire. The man, the pioneer, strong, noble character that he was, is discouraged. He has thrown down his scythe and his shovel, he has cast aside his hoe, he has gone down upon the ground, DO NOT SHUN THE FIGHT his chin is resting on his breast, he has quit; for him the struggle is over, he is defeated. But not so with the pioneer wife, the pioneer mother. Her bones are little, her muscles small but great are her faith and her determination. With children clinging to her skirts and a baby in her arms, her strong face is turned skyward, and as she looks into the blue of heaven she sees the seagulls coming. Her faith in Almighty God never wavers. All our hearts are touched by this picture of her heroism and by the story of the seagulls as this story is told in these few words on the bronze entablature: Seagull Monument — Erected in grateful remembrance of the mercy of God to the Mormon pioneers." Women and the Welfare of Their Sons YOU, daughters, descendants, followers of these noble pioneer women, will not, you cannot fail. Women may be interested in fashions, in jewels, in social functions, in fine feathers; their interest may be such in fact that they have little time or inclination for things religious. But few if any mothers are so much interested in dress and jewels and fashions and society that these will not be deserted and forgotten when to a real mother a call comes for her to render service whose purpose is the welfare of her son. Example: A little mother on the train in Idaho during the World War said she had a son, her only child. When the boy was but an infant his father died. And while the step-father had been kind to and was generally interested in the boy, to her, who was his mother, this son, her only child, was everything. Upon receiving a telegram at her home in St. Louis that soon 201 her son would sail for France she took the train for Camp Lewis in Oregon hoping to see once more the face of her soldier son before he started for those trenches on the western front. "Could Walk Through Fire' THAT son of mine," said she, "is dearer to me than all else on earth. Some complain because we are expected to eat bread made of coarse flour, or because our supply of sugar is limited. To me these little things are nothing. Going without sugar under these war conditions is a pleasure. I am glad to make the sacrifice. I could walk through fire if so doing were necessary to bring my boy back to me alive and well." That is but an example of the unselfish, the determined devotion of women, the spirit, the sterling worth of those who are genuine mothers. Wise indeed are those in our Church who have organized the mothers of the Deacons, the mothers of the Scouts, etc. Great wisdom is exercised also in effecting this powerful organization of the women of the nation in the interest of the Eighteenth Amendment. Example of the First Lady of the Land ET me stop here to commend the life, the labors, the ideals, the example of Mrs. Herbert Hoover, wife of the former President of the United States, as indicated by the following article which appeared in the Washington Post on March 9, 1929: "Women Aid Dry Drive—Ten National Affiliated Women's Organizations Pledge Support of 12,000,000 Women. The wife of the President was pointed to as a fine example of the way in which American women can help in the enforcement of the liquor law by refusing to participate in social functions where the law is broken." 202 I appeal to the women of the Church to follow this noble example. Fortunate indeed is any country which has for the wife of its chief executive one whose soul thus seeks first the good of the children of men. Latter-day Saint women, Latterday Saint mothers know by revelation and from scientific demonstration that intoxicating liquors are not good for man. Knowing the facts concerning the effect of alcohol upon the health, upon the success and effectiveness of the lives of their sons, surely' the women of the Church, the mothers, will unitedly come to the assistance of the women of the nation in their efforts to retain in our Constitution the Eighteenth Amendment and to enforce our Prohibition laws. Pledge to the Women of the Whole World A LITTLE woman, a little mother, reported in a Prohibition meeting in Salt Lake City recently that she was a delegate some years ago to the International Convention of the Women's Christian Temperance Union which was held at Geneva, Switzerland. She explained that it was thrilling when in a body all the women, all the mothers, delegates of the other nations of the whole world arose in a body and with their hands extended towards the delegates from the United States, appealed unitedly to the women of our country to continue to struggle to retain in our Constitution the Eighteenth Amendment and to have our Prohibition laws enforced. In reply to this impressive appeal of the women of all the rest of the world, the representatives from the United States arose en masse and, unitedly, holding one hand toward high heaven and the other on their hearts they made a solemn pledge to those women and mothers of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE world assembled that they will not cease to struggle, they will not cease to fight until the Eighteenth Amendment is permanently fixed in the Constitution of the United States and until our Prohibition laws are enforced. Appeal to Women of Church HEREBY appeal to the women of our own Church to remember that in unity there is strength, that a house divided against itself cannot stand. I appeal to them therefore to come forward with a solid front, backed by the revelation and by scientific knowledge that alcoholic liquors are not good for man, and give every support at their command to the women of the nation in their efforts to retain and to enforce our Prohibition laws. A Front Page Story Coming BURIED on the inside of a Salt Lake City paper issued this very day, February 28, 1933, appears the following: "Speaker I. A. Smoot of the House of Representatives was advised Monday afternoon that petitions against repeal of State dry laws, signed by 55,287 persons from 28 counties of the State, had been received by the National Women's Relief Society, Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, President, announced. "The petitions were circulated by auxiliaries of the L. D. S. Church and representatives of other churches in line with the national campaign against wet legislation conducted by women's organizations." If these women are determined and will struggle on until the election comes on the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment, these 55,287 persons will get a front page announcement. In the last election the total vote cast in the State of Utah was 201,325. If under present conditions the women's organizations DO NOT SHUN THE FIGHT can get over 50,000 signatures to petitions, their united effort will surely result in holding safely the western front for Prohibition. Is it necessary for me in this appeal to the women of the Church to say anything about the ill effects of alcoholic beverages? Since those younger than thirty-five can hardly remember the saloon or its effects, it may be well to summarize a few of the outstanding facts and conditions concerning the use of liquor. The statements given below are taken mainly from a pamphlet entitled, "Let's Have the Truth About Prohibition,” published by the American Business Men's Prohibition Foundation, 7 Dearborn Street, Chicago, Illinois. The Truth About Prohibition MEPICAL authorities mention as some of the common manifestations of liquor drinking that the face becomes flushed and hot; the pulse accelerated. Thére is general loss of self-control. The brain is dulled. Speech is impeded. There is staggering and loss of equilibrium. There is nausea and vomiting. There is stupor—unconsciousness resembling the deep anesthesia produced by ether or chloroform. If we partook of food that produced such effects, we would call it poison and summon a physician. Alcohol is a poison—a dangerous habit-forming drug. In fact, if alcohol anesthesia lasts more than 10 or 12 hours, it is often fatal. One hundred years of education preceded the enactment of the Prohibition amendment. Educational efforts came to a virtual standstill when the amendment was passed. In the meantime wet propaganda— highly colored and distorted, but often cleverly prepared—has flooded the nation. Millions of people 203 are being deluded by this constant outpouring of misinformation. Ignorant of the facts and blinded by the unanswered charges of the wet press, increasing numbers are nullifying the Prohibition amendment and seeking its repeal. Is Prohibition Corrupting Young People? ANY are often positive that young folks drink more today than they did before Prohibition. The educators of America whose life work brings them into daily contact with young people say otherwise. President Wilbur of Stanford University says they have only onetenth the problem they had with ° liquor before Prohibition. Professor Clarke of Yale says in the old days their committee on discipline was constantly busy with cases involving intoxication. Now they have practically no business of this kind to transact. High school principals of the country state overwhelmingly that drinking among high school students has decreased since Prohibition. Coaches of 100 leading colleges state that drinking by athletes is now no problem. "We have had no trouble so far as liquor is concerned in the past seven years," says Ralph Young of Michigan. A. A. Stagg, famous Chicago coach: "Liquor is less of a problem here today than it ever has been." The heads of 213 colleges report almost unanimously that drinking in the colleges has decreased. Drinking Always Harmful THE most ardent advocates of repeal abhor the thought that their sons or their daughters may become drinkers. Liquor has always been and will forever be the boon companion of crime. It has been and  will forever be a breaker of the law. Witness the following from a speech made in Ohio in 1912 before the Retail Liquor Dealers' Association: "We must create the appetite for liquor. The open field for the creation of appetite is among the boys. Nickels expended in treats to boys now will return dollars to our tills after the appetite has been formed." Drinking Decreases Under Prohibition N 1908 there was one retail liquor dealer for every 333 persons in the United States. The yearly expenditure for liquor was three times as great as the cost of operating our public schools. Commander Evangeline Booth of the Salvation Army says: "Before Prohibition in New York City from 1200 to 1300 drunks a night were brought to Army 'homes,' while the number now on an average does not exceed seven." Has Prohibition increased crime? No; since Prohibition crime has diminished. George W. Kirchwey of the American Institute of Criminal Law says: "'The official record covering the eighteen years, 1910 to 1927 inclusive, shows a decline of from 35 to 40 per cent in the general crime rate in the United States." Those under the age of thirty-five years who do not remember conditions during saloon days should be impressed with the following quotation from the Chicago Tribune of July 11, 1917: "If the veritable narrative of the American saloon were ever written, it would make the decadence of Rome look like an age of pristine beauty in comparison. The liquor business has been the faithful ally of every vicious element in American life. It has protected criminals, fostered the social evil and bribed politicians, juries and legislatures."' What more evidence than this does any woman need to induce her to put her all upon the altar to protect mankind from the deadly effects of alcohol? Age of Speed "THIS is the age of speed and speed is typically American. It is not only logical but inevitable that the United States—pacemaker in the age of motor advancement—should have led the world in the adoption of National Prohibition. Cheaply indeed will we value human life if we legalize the sale of alcoholic beverages. Imagine the condition of our country with its automobiles, flying machines and swift-moving machinery if our Prohibition laws are repealed and alcoholic beverages are advertized by radio and other modern methods as cigarettes are advertised today. It is greed, it is financial gain, it is the selfishness of men which makes possible this insistent demand now being made* for the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment and for the repeal of our -Prohibition enforcement laws. The M. I. A. General Boards have said: "Alcohol strikes at the very foundation of human progress. Prohibition is the most successful means yet tried or devised by this or any other nation for dealing with the liquor traffic.