Don't Forget Fish By Lucy Rose Middleton. About the source of the foods which come to us from distant places. The subject of fish calls to mind the historic old city of Gloucester, north of Boston, which is one of the largest centers of the American fishing industry. There are 20,000 people in this town whose livelihood depends on what comes back in the fishing boats. In the early morning Gloucester Harbor is a mass of white sails, all set for the trip out to sea. They are usually not back until late at night. It is a tradition of this port never to consult the calendar. Winter and summer, in good weather and bad, the boats go out as a matter of course. Danger is commonplace to these fisher folk, for they see it often. Every year some vessel goes out beyond the breakwater and never returns. Often one will see a boat returning with the flag at half-mast. Some little dory far from the mother ship has been capsized by strong winds, or lost its way in a heavy fog. Last year there were twelve such mishaps; still "with silent courage the fishermen carry on, daring the Atlantic storms while the town watches the sky." Not only on the sea is there industry. The fish that are brought back to port mean work on shore. In plants many men are busy cleaning, splitting, drying, putting down in brine, skinning, and canning. The famous Grotton fish cakes are made in this town, and many other recognized brands of fish are shipped from Gloucester. More different kinds of fish appear in the markets in March and April than in any of the other months of the year. Because they are so plentiful, we should concentrate on |: is always interesting to know their use to provide variety on the dining-room program. There was an old belief that fish was especially a brain food, because it was considered to be a rich source of phosphorus, and one of the sages said: "Without phosphorus there is no thought." Tihis fallacy about fish has been exposed, for it is well known that protein foods from other sources contain quite as much phosphorus. However, fish is nutritious, easily digested, and furnishes the idoine that so many of our foods lack. Sea-food dinners, with the correct accompaniments, should be served oftener. Most persons would enjoy fish twice a week. HOLLENDEN HALIBUT 2-pound piece of chicken halibut. Fat salt pork. 1 small onion, thinly sliced. Bit of bay leaf. 3 tablespoons butter. 3 tablespoons flour. 34 cup buttered crumbs. Arrange 6 thin slices salt pork on oven-proof platter or in dripping pan. Cover with onion, add bay leaf. Place halibut over pork and onion. Spread top with butter and flour creamed together. Cover with crumbs and arrange narrow strips of salt pork over crumbs. Cover with buttered paper and bake 50 minutes in moderate oven 350 degrees F.), removing the paper during last 15 minutes to brown the crumbs. Garnish with slices of lemon cut in fancy shapes, sprinkle with chopped parsley and paprika.. Serve with white sauce. FRIED SCALLOPS Clean 1 quart of scallops, drain, and dry very carefully between towels. Season with salt and pepper, DONT FORGET FISH dip in egg, then in fine crumbs or corn meal, and fry 2 minutes in deep fat (385 degrees F.). Drain on brown paper. Mock scallops may be made by using halibut cut in pieces about the size and shape of scallops. SALMON SOUFFLE 2 cups salmon (fresh). L4 teaspoon salt. Paprika. 2 teaspoons lemon juice. 1/4, cup soft stale bread crumbs. 1/2 cup milk. 3 egg yolks. 3 egg whites. Thoroughly rinse the salmon, remove bones and skin, separate into flakes, and add seasonings. Cook bread crumbs in milk 5 minutes, add salmon and egg yolks beaten until thick and lemon-colored; then cut and fold in egg whites, beaten until stiff. Turn into buttered dish, set in pan of hot water, and bake in moderate oven (350 degrees F.) until firm. Serve with Spanish Sauce. SPANISH SAUCE 2 tablespoons finely chopped bacon. 1 tablespoon chopped onion. 4 tablespoons butter. 4 tablespoons flour. 2 cups tomato juice. Cook bacon and onions with butter until butter is well browned; add flour, stir. Then add tomato juice and cook 5 minutes. Season well. SCALLOPED OYSTERS 1 pint oysters. 4 tablespoons oyster liquor. 2 tablespoons milk or cream. Y4 cup stale bread crumbs. 1 cup cracker crumbs. 1/2 cup melted butter. Salt. Pepper. Mix bread and cracker crumbs and stir in butter. Put a layer in bottom of shallow, buttered baking dish, cover with oysters, and sprinkle with salt and pepper; add half  223 each of oyster liquor and milk or cream. Repeat and cover top with remaining crumbs. Bake 30 minutes in hot oven (450 degrees F.). Never allow more than 2 layers of oysters for Scalloped Oysters; if 3 layers are used, the middle layer will be underdone, while others will be properly cooked. If desired, sprinkle each layer with mace or grated nutmeg., FRIED OYSTERS Clean selected oysters and dry between towels. Season with salt and pepper, dip in flour, egg, and cracker crumbs, stale bread crumbs, or corn meal, and fry in deep fat (375 degrees F.). Drain on brown paper and serve with tartare sauce. Garnish with ring of lemon and parsley. TARTARE SAUCE 34 cup Mayonnaise dressing. 1% tablespoon finely chopped onion. 1/2 tablespoon capers. 1/4 tablespoon each, finely chopped pickles, olives, parsley. 1 tablespoon vinegar. Combine ingredients. BAKED STUFFED SMELTS Clean and wipe dry as possible 12 selected smelts. Stuff, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and brush over with lemon juice. Place in buttered shallow dish, cover with buttered paper, and bake 5 minutes in hot oven. Sprinkle with buttered crumbs and bake until crumbs are brown. Serve with Tartare Sauce. Stuffing: Cook 1 tablespoon finely chopped onion with 1 tablespoon butter 3 minutes. Add 1/2 cup finely chopped mushrooms, 11/2 cup chopped oysters (parboiled and drained, if fresh), 1/4 teaspoon chopped parsley, and 3 tablespoons thick white sauce. A plain cracker crumb stuffing moistened with melted butter and seasoned with salt and pepper may also be used.