[Vol1 | April 1914 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Report Blanks]

REPORT BLANKS. 
Those who wish to purchase Relief Society Report Blanks should write to the Deseret News Book Store or the Sunday School Union Book Store, where they are on sale for 25 cents a dozen. 
The Minute-books and Roll-books should also be purchased from the same places, as we do not keep them in the Relief Society Headquarters. 
Roll-books cost from 35 cents up to $1.25. 
Minute-books from 25 cents to $4.00, according to size and binding. 
Both stores carry all these books. 
 THE AMERICAN CITY. 
We would advise our sisters not to purchase the expensive book called "The American City," which was first recommended in our Giude. 
It is not as suitable as we could wish, and it is very expensive. 
We hope to have our book of Art and Architecture, written by Mrs. 
Alice Merrill Horneready for use very soon, and this will contain a chapter or two which will cover most of the ground of home and civic improvement. 
Therefore, we suggest that the sisters wait for this book soon to be issued. 
OUR ADVERTISERS. 
We desire to call attention to the various firms who advertise in our pages, as each and all of them deserve well at the hands of the thousands of women who read this Bulletin. 
Not only are they loyal in the support they have given this Bulletin, and therefore are loyal to the Relief Society Cause, but also each and all of them are absolutely Tellable and worthy of the united support of the women of the Relief Society. 
We suggest to those who live in this city, or vicinity, to make their purchases from the firm which we advertise, while those visitors who come from a distance at Conference time, or on all other occasions, should patronize our friends who advertise with us. 
We would appreciate it if you Sisters would mention the fact to our business firms, that you saw their advertisement in the Bulletin and thus was led to patronize them. 
Let us be loyal to those who are loyal to us. 
BURIAL CLOTHES Relief General Board Society FURNISHES COMPLETE BURIAL SUITS Phones Wasatch 3455 and Wasatch 
207 Salt Lake City Utah THE L. 
HOSPITAL TRAINING D. 
S. 
SCHOOL FOR NURSES has an average enrollment of about 
100 Nurses In training. 
The hospital has capacity of 250 beds. 
The training school is under the direction and supervision of highly trained graduate nurses from schools of national reputation. 
It gives a three years course in training in nursing in all its branches. 
For further particulars address the Superintendent of Nurses Dr. 
W.H. 
GROVES LATTER-DAY SAINTS HOSPITAL, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. 
ICE CREAM SHERBETS PUNCHES and CANDIES are the "BEST BY TEST' ' Special prices to all Ward and School Socials etc.