[Vol1 | April 1914 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Home_Gardening | Title: Home Gardening for Women]

HOME GARDENING FOR WOMEN Lesson IV. (Twenty Minutes.) *'In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not thy hand for thou knowest not whether shall prosper; this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good." Eccles. 2:6.
The home garden should be situated in the richest and best land to be found in the whole city lot and if it is not, it; should be made so by proper drainage, and fertilization.
It should be given plenty of sunlight, and removed from the shade of fences and trees.
With these conditions favorably worked out, with good, selected seeds, with care taken in planting, and with the usual average climatic conditions, there is no reason why it should not be a most successful garden.
Let taste and space determine first of all what shall be planted.  Asparagus.
A perennial plant of the lily family, largely developed by cultivation, and which is grown as an article of  food.
It is propagated in beds heavily mulched, the young shoots being the only portion eaten.
It is one of the earliest spring vegetables.
It should not be cut after the middle of June, when it should be left to seed and dry down preparatory for the next season's crop; during the cutting season, cut the stalks deep down in the earth, and keep them cut constantly if you wish them to be tender and brittle.
Asparagus requires plenty of water and sunshine to create rapid growth.
Beets.
Beets are well known vegetables, valued as food owing to the large quantities of sugar they contain.
There are four kinds of beets cultivated, the common beet, the Chard, the Sea and the mangel-wurzel.
They are easily grown, and very profitable for table use.  Peas and Beans.
There are many varieties of each suitable for our climate.
Peas can be planted much earlier than beans, as they are not so easily nipped by the frost.
Stake as soon as they begin to form tendrils.
Keep off the ground, as they sometimes mildew; as soon as the first crop yields, plant another, and you will have new peas and beans all season.
Let us recommend for your use the Telephone, Marrow-fat, and an early pea called the Tom Thumb.
These are of the finest varieties grown.
Keep the soil loose and well hilled up around the plants.  Rhubarb.
Homely old rhubarb is the best blood tonic, and the easiest grown of almost any plant in the world, once you get it well rooted.
The plant bulbs or doubled tuber roots can be taken up and divided year after year and replanted until you and all your friends have rhubarb the season through.
In the fall when the leaves have died down, loosen the dirt around the roots, cover with rotted manure, and as soon as the snow is melted in the spring, rake off part of its covering and place old barrels or pans over the top.
This gives extra warmth and draws the sun, and before you are aware, the red and green tops are pushing their way through the earth.
Give plenty of water and keep the soil loose about the plants.  Sage.
Sage is an extensive genus of plants of the mint family which is widely distributed in warm regions, embracing 450 species.
Most varieties are perennials of shrubby nature.
It is very easily grown, and should be sown in open ground and kept well watered and hoed.
It is used extensively for flavoring meat, especially for dressing in poultry, and the leaves are employed in making a slightly stimulating tea.
Sage seed can be purchased at any seed store, and should be planted in
10 shallow trenches and covered lightly.
Just pluck the leaves and the stalks will dry down.
Parsley.
Parsely one of the most used and easily is grown herbs, having almost an endless life.
It can be sown on top of well prepared soil, lightly raked in and patted down with a hoe.
Keep well sprinkled, but do not get discouraged as it requires some thirty days before you see little Miss Parsely peeping through the ground.
Do not pull up, but cut off the tops.
It will soon grow again, and can be taken up in the fall, put in pots or boxes, and kept in the kitchen window green all winter for table use.
If I only had a piece of ground 2x6 feet, I'd have all the above named things planted on it.  Flowers.
Marigold, Phlox, Zinnias, Nasturtiums, BachelorButtons, Lark Spur, Columbines, etc., are the old-fashioned flowers our mothers used to grow.
All are grown from seed, and require about similar conditions to make them mature.
Let us put on our bonnets, walk out in the sunshine and begin now to plan for our garden, and choose from nature's gift some of its wonderful plant life to fill our lives with new thoughts and new ambition.  Sweet Peas.
Just a word about these beautiful flowers.
Sweet peas can be grown almost anywhere, where soil and sunshine meet.
Like all other plants, success begins with the seeds, although home-grown seed is less likely to be satisfactory than are the home-grown Bachelor-Buttons or Cosmos, or almost any other common garden flower.
Preparation of the soil is now the first thing to consider; drainage is also an important factor towards success.
It is almost impossible to plant too early.
As soon as able to work the ground, one may get ready to plant sweet peas.
Let us next consider getting the seed well down in the ground.
Dig a trench about a  foot deep and six inches wide now pulverize the soil taken out, see that it is rich and somewhat sandy  partly fill in the  trench leaving about four inches to be filled in later sprinkle either margin of the trench with the pea seed, then cover with about two inches of soil.
They are strong and vigorous, and will soon find their way through the covering.
Keep the soil loose, adding more as the plants grow, until the trench is filled and on a level with the rest of the garden plot.
Stick in at once plenty of good strong willows, and do not over-water.
In July, August and September you will be amply paid for all time and money spent, for each day you will be able to pluck great handfuls of these fragrant and sweet butterfly-like flowers.
 April