Happenings By Annie W ells Cannon DECEMBER?With Christmas near, an infinitude of tendernes hovers over the world. AN Allegory: Once there was a man of power and honor who directed the distribution of great wealth. This he did wisely and well and received much praise. For praise he cared not. He said the Savior's way is best, "Let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth." From his own means he gave to the poor in spirit, the afflicted, the sick at heart, and such as these. Happy in giving happiness! Not in large figures are these things recorded; but in the golden book of memory from the hearts of grateful men and women is written, "God bless Heber J. Grant." ALMA GLUCK, famous Metropolitan opera singer of yesteryear, died last month. Fortunately her incomparable voice is preserved to posterity on phonographic records. PRINCESS FREDERICA of Greece in October gave birth to a daughter. The advent of the young princess was an occasion of rejoicing and brought the release of all prisoners of minor offenses and the return home of 400 deported persons. FARIDA, 17 year-old Queen of Egypt, has her baby princess, for whom a $15,000 layette was prepared. In celebration of the event thousands of poor were given new clothes and free meals and 20,000 school children suits and dresses. MADAM SUN YAT-SEN still pleads for no surrender to the Japanese forces. She is a magnificent leader and inspires resistance. VIRGINIA LLOYD-SMITH, accompanied her father, of the American Museum of Natural History, on his last hunting trip to Alaska. Virginia is 13 years old and on this trip killed three caribou and a bear. CATHERINE D. BLAKE, 80, now lecturing in the United States, recently returned from Europe where she attended, as delegate, the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom. ELZABETH SIEFERT, of Missouri, won the $10,000 prize from Dodd, Mead and Company for the best novel of 1938. The book is titled "Young Doctor Galahad." FRANCES WINWAR'S new book "Farewell The Banner," the story of Coleridge, the Wordsworths?William and Dorothy? is as interesting as her story of the Rosettis, "Poor Splendid Wings." MARGUERITE CAMERON has written a juvenile book "This Is The Place," a story of early Utah. BLANCHE K. McKEY, of Ogden, has had a poem accepted by the National Magazine of Poetry?'Pioneer Graveyard." BDH WHARTON'S | novel "The Buccaneers," published after her death, is described by the critics as all-absorbing and a fine addition to American literature. Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary WIth the close of 1938 the Relief Society in all the stakes and missions of the Church may look back over the achievements of the year with satisfaction. The General Presidency and Board acknowledge with deep gratitude the fine spirit of cooperation everywhere evidenced. There are many pictures and interesting reports of work accomplished that must of necessity be held for future publication in Notes From The Field. Sincere thanks are expressed to all who have sent material to the office. Idaho Falls THE stake has been very active in all lines of work. Special attention has been given to the preparation of Visiting Teachers for their duties. The following is a good summary: 1. Thoroughly and prayerfully prepare the message given in the Magazine. Prayerfully prepare before going into the homes. 2. Fully understand the origin and organization of Relief Society; its aims and purposes. 3. Seek the Spirit of God. Keep the Word of Wisdom. 4, Cultivate the spirit of discernment. 5. Make it a duty to bring sunshine into the homes. 6. Make duty a pleasure, leave your troubles at home. 7. Hold sacred all confidences; avoid gossip. 8. Pay annual dues; be a subscriber to the Relief Society Magazine. 9. Carefully observe conditions within homes, and confidentially report needs, both material and spiritual, to ward Relief Society president. 10. Receive voluntary donations. The charity fund is a sacred trust fund and is largely made up of voluntary contributions given through Visiting Teachers when visiting the districts. 11. Extend an invitation to all women visited to attend Relief Society meetings. Be informed upon the lesson programs and Work and Business day programs; be able to acquaint those visited with these. 12. A spiritual message as outlined by the General Board should be delivered in each home. Teaching is not drudgery, but is missionary work. Qualifications of a teacher: "A true Latter-day Saint; this embraces everything noble and good." Another fine project was the scrapbooks which each ward prepared. An exhibition of these brought to the General office, served during Conference, as a sample for others to copy. They were a demonstration of what can be accomplished when each member of an organization makes her contribution. The materials, beautiful pictures, poems, etc., chosen for the books covered subjects of importance in Theology, Visiting Teachers' Message, and the Home Reading Project. Deseret Stake THE following picture was recently taken of the first Relief Society officers in the Delta Ward, Deseret Stake. The organization was effected June 17, 1909. The women beginning at left, are: Ruth C. Maxfield, first counselor; Julia Peterson, treasurer; Annie M. Bishop, president; Sarah J. Rigby, secretary, and Almeda Lewis, second counselor. These women are all living in Delta at the present time and are ac- 830 tive or honorary members of the Relief Society. 1 On August 30, a successful Visiting Teachers' Convention was held in Delta under the supervision of the stake board with an attendance of 192.. SS RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE calls which may be made of the stake board. This program printed in attractive booklet form contains names of stake officers and their special calling, the committees for ward conferences, summer Union meetings, FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS, DELTA WARD The Singing Mothers under the direction of the stake chorister rendered some delightful musical numbers. A Visiting Teacher Message was presented, applying the principles of correct teaching. A talk on the "do's and don'ts" for visiting teachers was enlightening. A demonstration of a proper way to deliver the spiritual message in the homes was presented. The theme song "A Hundred Thousand Strong" added enthusiasm to the meeting, which concluded with a social hour and refreshments. President Vera Hilton, with other members of the Stake Board, has worked out in detail a program extending from October 1, 1938, to October 1, 1939, which includes all events to take place, except special conventions, and visits to wards. It specifies when all executive, stake board, and Union meetings, conference conventions, ward conferences and other events are to be held. The booklet contains the Relief Society motto, its aims and a fitting quotation from the Prophet Joseph Smith as follows: 'All difficulties which might and would cross our way must be surmounted though the soul be tired, the heart faint, and hands hang down." California Mission HIS mission is remarkable for many things.