1. Why does labor in the mission field so generally aid our people to LESSON DEPARTMENT receive a testimony from the Holy Ghost?
2. Name all the functions of the Holy Ghost that you can. What is the difference between the Holy Ghost and the gift of the Holy Ghost? (Note: See Parry, Joseph Smith's Teachings, pp. 69-81.)
3. Explain the difference in the apostle Peter's courage before and after the resurrection. (Compare Matt. 26:69-75 with Acts 4:1-20.)
4. Let some one in the class present the Prophet Joseph Smith's discussion of the effect of the first Comforter or Holy Ghost upon a person. (See Parry, Joseph Smith's Teachings, pp. 21 f.)
The Desert Book Company have on hand a few copies of "The Apostles of Jesus Christ," by the late Edward H. Anderson, and "Ancient Apostles," by David O. McKay, specially priced at seventy-nine cents per copy with ten cents additional cost for postage, and in the state of Utah, the sales tax also additional. These two books, published locally and written by our Church leaders, work nicely into the Theology course of study.
Visiting Teacher Department
Messages to the Home
No. VI?Sources of Power
Paul, an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, said, "For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power." I Cor. 4:19-20.
IS there some relation between strength of personality and true worship? Jesus points to three expressions of worship as sources of spiritual power: almsgiving, fasting, and prayer. He teaches how these principles can be real forces in developing personality. Mere observance of ritual will not increase our capacities. Quietly, out of the depths of the heart, these principles must be lived. To give to mankind with the same interest as a father gives to his son will certainly strengthen and improve the quality of love. The apostle Paul reflecting the teachings of Jesus said that though we bestow all our goods to feed the poor and have not charity (love) it profiteth nothing. Fasting brings us near our Heavenly Father; it shows sincerity of heart and brings great spiritual strength. The Master fasted that He might have spiritual power. If He had need to fast, how much more have we! In fasting for the purpose of administering to the needs of others one must have a genuine, heart-felt desire to aid. Thus our power to sympathize intelligently is expanded and fasting becomes truly ennobling. We pray to our Heavenly Father because we have faith in Him. Various needs cause us to pray. If prayer is to be a source of power we must know how to pray, and for what to pray. Jesus' guide is found by searching the depths of meaning in the Lord's Prayer, the perfect prayer. The rewards of true prayer are peace of soul, courage to meet life's problems, and clearer insight into the spiritual laws, which, if applied, will help solve problems. Prayer brings growth in faith and love. Surely, here is power. Psychology has recognized the value of faith and love in human personality.
Questions
1. What characterizes intelligent giving?
2. Does depriving one's self of food adequately express the principle of fasting?
3. Can one reasonably expect RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE power to follow knowing but not doing?
References: Matthew 6:1-18; 9:13-15; 21:22.
Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs planned by your ward.
Literature
The Advance of the Novel
Lesson VI
The Greatest Age of the Novel
SCOTT'S last novel was published in 1831 and Queen Victoria began her glorious reign in 1837. The Victorian Age had dawned, and that age was to be one of the most memorable in the history of mankind as well as in the history of the English novel. At the time of Sir Walter Scott's death, two of England's greatest novelists were approximately twenty years of age and Mary Ann Evans?George Eliot?was thirteen. Those three people, assisted by a few lesser lights, were to carry the novel on from where the Scotchman had left it to new heights of glory. Phelps opens his fifth chapter in his book The Advance of the English Novel, with these words: "Perhaps the greatest decade in the history of the English novel was the period between 1850 and 1860 inclusive." He then proceeds to name a number of novels whose names are household words the world around and whose characters are as well known as the greatest men and women who ever actually lived. During that period, too, Americans had begun to make their presence felt in the world of letters. Nathaniel Hawthorne, Edgar Allan Poe, Harriet Beecher Stowe, and others were producing some of their great books, some of which rank among the best ever produced anywhere. Furthermore, during the same period, several of the greatest poets of all time were writing their epics, their odes, and their dramatic poems. The Victorian Age was one of the most important literary periods in the history of this earth. Youthful science was beginning to show strength; new America was being built, and it seemed that literary men and women were fired by the spirit of the age. It was truly a period of conquest, but the conquests of war were infinitesimally insignificant compared with the conquests of peace during the life-time of the great queen of England.
Sir Walter Scott had prepared a reading public for the historical novel, and along came William Makepeace Thackeray to begin where Scott left off. As a novelist Thackeray was much greater than Scott. He was more careful as a writer and keener as an analyst. Thackeray's three novels?Henry LESSON DEPARTMENT Esmond, The Virginians, and Vanity Fair?are classics among the classics of our language. Phelps pays this man this tribute: "It remained for Thackeray to write the best historical romance in our language, Esmond." He continues: "He wrote Esmond at white heat in a short time, and the manuscript showed few corrections. I like it best because it contains the best of Thackeray?and the best of Thackeray has not been surpassed in English fiction." Esmond has often been referred to as the best novel in the English language. Those who haven't done so should read it, and especially after reading Scott. They will find how much more subtle Thackeray is and how much more carefully he builds every detail pertaining to his story.
Thackeray's greatest and almost exact contemporary was Charles Dickens. Cross says that as Sir Walter Scott took the Gothic romance and transformed it into Waverly and his other historical novels, Dickens took the sentimental novel of the eighteenth century and made of it a new and dignified creation of his own. His novels are often referred to as humanitarian. In a time when children needed a champion one was born in Dickens. His novels, it is said, did more to bring about reforms in England than all the law makers. Be that as it may, the pictures he has painted of suffering childhood have become priceless possessions of the race. "In the history of British fiction," says Phelps, "Dickens fills the biggest place, contributed the largest number of permanently interesting characters, owed less to other authors than any other novelist and would be the one I should keep if all but one had to perish. No other writer has made so great a contribution to the greatest happiness of the greatest number; and while it is possible to contemplate the history of the novel minus any other author, we simply cannot get along without Dickens." Professor Phelps may seem a bit over-enthusiastic about Dickens, but certainly he is one of the best-known and best-loved writers the world has yet produced.
It might be interesting to quote some things which the French critic Chevalley has to say of Dickens and Thackeray. It may assist a bit in the discussion of the novel in general. "All his (Dickens') gifts led him into excess: excess of imagination, that led to caricature; excess of humor that led to crude effects of tears and laughter; excess of colour, excess of verve, and a Grub-street romanticism well suited to his public while shocking to the exquisites. But behind all these excesses which compromise the value of Dickens' novels, the mysterious gift of life?which is never excessive?renders them unforgettable. His was an imagination at once so realistic and so powerful that he did not copy but created types. His work is a fair of strange people. Let us not demand of Dickens what he had not to give." Chevalley says further: "He has made mankind tremble in his books, but it is the trembling of movement against atmosphere, of life against death. One may discuss Dickens; it is impossible to forget him."
Let us now turn to what the same critic has to say of Thackeray. "It is a commonplace to oppose Dickens to his great contemporary Thackeray. Everything invites comparison. They were writing at the same time, but Thackeray achieved success more tardily. He was reserved, delicate; he had taste and style. He does not drive home truths, he unfolds them. In his work comedy is as measured, but as penetrating, as pathos is discreet and effective. His characters do not move all in a piece. He comments on them, but they reveal themselves and have no need of labels. They are people of fashion and good breeding, excepting the servants, who never lapse into vulgarity. Thackeray's psychology is acute and profound. There are real women in his books. He observes an instructive restraint in the presence of grief and death, the mystery of love and the mystery of religion. His emotion is marked by neither gesture nor cries. He touches the heart without gripping it, life without trepidation. In these divers respects the contrast is natural, inevitable, between the two greatest novelists of the first half of the nineteenth century. But how much more instructive, as regards the development of the novel, is what they shared in common!"
Another contemporary of Thackeray should be mentioned before we turn to the novel which we are to treat next. That person is Mary Ann Evans?George Eliot. Born in 1819, George Eliot published her first long novel?Adam Bede?in 1859 when she was forty years old. It was a great success and was soon followed by two others of her most famous books?The Mill on the Floss and Silas Marner. Both of these books were gratifying successes and established the author among the great novelists of England and certainly among the first few of the greatest women writers who have ever lived. Because much of the story in these books depends upon the mental processes?the thinking that went on in the minds of the characters?they are called psychological novels.
During the period that these three RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE titans of the novel were producing their best works, of course there were other lesser writers who wrote good books. Among these was Richard Doddridge Blackmore (1825-1900) whose greatest novel is Lorna Doone, a romance of the time of Charles II, James II, and Queen Anne. This novel was written seventeen years after Thackeray wrote his Henry Esmond. Blackmore was a lesser writer, but in his novel he has shown a strength that marks him as a really important story teller. He is not so spectacular as Dickens and not so convincing as Thackeray, but for sheer story telling, in this one book of his, he has really equalled the masters. William Long says of Lorna Doone: "Altogether it would be hard to find a more delightful romance in any language, and it well deserves the place it has won as one of the classics of our literature." Because Lorna Doone is a splendid romance dealing with a picturesque age in English history and because Mr. Blackmore, in it, has shown his mastery of rhythmical prose, it has been selected for review and study. Told in the first person, it takes its place along side of such noble novels as Henry Esmond and David Copperfield, although not quite so important or well known as either. Thackeray or Dickens probably might have been used, but since their novels are so well known and since Lorna Doone is a book that should be in every well-read person's repertoire, so to speak, it was thought best to use it. George Eliot's works were not selected because in recent years they have been used for literary lessons. It would be well for the reader of Lorna Doone to spend a few minutes on the history of England during the reign of Charles II and LESSON DEPARTMENT James II, as it is found in any modern or English school history, for then he will be able just a little better to understand some of the troubles of big John Ridd.
Suggestions The following are merely suggestive:
1. Read from any good school history or encyclopedia the story of the reigns of Charles II and James II of England.
2. Read Chapter 5 The Advance of the English Novel.
3. Class members could read scenes from the novels of Dickens, Thackeray, George Eliot.
4. If all but one novelist had to perish, which would you keep? Which of the novelist's books would you keep? Why?
Social Service
Lesson 6
How to Get Along with People
I. The Kernel of the Lesson. Of all the achievements a person may have, nothing contributes quite so much to his happiness and general success as the ability to live cooperatively and peaceably with other people. This capacity depends largely upon the ability to forget one's self and, for the moment at least, to see out of the other person's eyes. We must be able not only to see things as he does, but we must be willing to let his valuation of himself grow by his contacts with us. To be a good subordinate or follower, one must not know more than his leader, or appear to know more. Rather one should cater to the whims of his superior, and show respect for his authority. To be a good leader, one must give credit to followers where it is due and give other evidence that the point of view of the followers is known and appreciated. Finally, the art of friendship grows out of community of interests, sympathy with each other's enthusiasms, and other relationships which permit one another to feel bigger and better in some respect.
II. Why the Ability to Get Along with People Is Important. In recent years, science has made enormous progress in controlling the physical universe. We have made strides in conquering time and space through the telephone, telegraph and radio, and the railroad, automobile and airplane. We have learned much about prolonging life through modern medicine. But all of the great scientific advances have not enlightened us sufficiently in the art of human management to prevent wars and internal national disorders. Today two major wars are raging because nations cannot forget self long enough to see and appreciate the point of view of one another. Most of the unhappy people are those who have not learned to share the joys and sorrows of others. The man who frequently loses his job is he who cannot work in an organization without friction, the touchy person, the grumbler, and the one who is directly absorbed with what he will "get out of the job," rather than what he can put into it. But the ability to get along with others makes the greatest difference to our happiness. As it pertains to our relationships in the home, where human contacts are so intimate and the wearing qualities of a personality are most severely tested. Disagreeable relationships in the home have more to do with producing delinquency and school failure than any other social cause. In industry one of the highest priced qualities in an executive is his ability to manage men so as to make them productive, by making them like their work. Many of our high Church officials owe their great usefulness to this ability, the ability to organize and manage people. Recently a great contractor with a meager education and only average technical knowledge was asked the secret of his success. His answer was that he had what it took to get men with brains and education to do what he wanted them to do. No ability, then, means more to our success and happiness than this knack of understanding our fellow men and living cooperatively with them.
III. Ability to See the Other Person's Point of View Is the Basis of Getting Along With People. Jesus once said, "Judge not that ye be not judged," "and why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?" (Matthew 7:1, 4). "He that is without sin, let him cast the first stone." (John 8:7, see also verses 1 to 11). In these statements, He spoke of a most common human failing: the inability to see the other person's point of view. Speaking positively, Jesus gave us the secret of getting along with people in the following words: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "But whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister, and whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant, even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many." (Matt. 20:26-28.) This spirit is indeed that of modern business, the secret of its success. Henry Ford is great financially because he has rendered a service to the people they have been willing to pay for; Franklin D. Roosevelt is great politically and socially because he came in an hour of dire need and aimed his program toward satisfying the needs of the people. Great men are those who see out of other people's eyes, who are more directly interested in the problems of others than in their own immediate needs. Jesus came not to do His own will but the will of the Father; He sacrificed His life that we might have everlasting life. A poor salesman makes speeches centered about the fine qualities of his products; a good salesman talks about you and your needs. A person applying for a position has a far better chance if he studies the needs of his prospective employer and thinks mainly about how well his qualifications will meet those needs. Most employers are interested in operating their business efficiently and care very little about our personal needs in applying for a job. Again, "whosoever would be chief among you let him be your servant." If we would advance in the Church, let us look for opportunities to be of the greatest possible service, and think little of personal glory.
LESSON DEPARTMENT In the home, the ability of a mother to see a child's problem as he sees it is essential for successful guidance. Children frequently make life miserable for each other because they lack this ability, because their immaturity prevents this sharing of points of view. A wife who understands the particular interests and enthusiasms of her husband, and the husband who appreciates those interests that are feminine?they are likely to be a happy couple. Their interests need not coincide so long as there is mutual understanding and toleration of each other's point of view. This personality quality is often expressed by such simple acts as a wife purchasing Christmas or birthday presents that give expression to her husband's hobbies and enthusiasms, for example, fishing tackle or hunting equipment if his enthusiasms run along this line. He in turn will not express his own wants or interests in what he presents to his wife, such as giving her a set of camping utensils when she is really enthusiastic about fine tapestry or Venetian vases.
IV. Give the Other Person a Chance to Express Himself, or Expand His Ego, if You Would Get Along With Him. Most often this means to praise the person we would get along with whenever a legitimate occasion arises. It does not mean to flatter, for flattery is a kind of pseudo-praise where your real motives are too obviously selfish. Genuine praise springs from the heart; it is a genuine appreciation for the good in others. To talk freely of our own successes tends to deflate the other person's ego, and to inflate our own. Ego striving is the motivation underlying boasting. Naturally it is unpopular, though very common, and one of the surest ways to make people dislike us. Let the other person do the talking, if you would get along with him; and when you do talk, let it be about either purely impersonal subjects or those that are related to his enthusiasms. Talk about the other person's children, about her boy away at college or on a mission, about her grandchildren, or about her part in the Relief Society program. When we tell a joke on ourselves, it permits the other person's ego to expand; but when we tell one on him, the opposite effect follows and he is likely to dislike us. The habit of telling jokes which are intended to discount someone else is often a symptom of insecure conceptions of the value of oneself, of inferiority feelings at heart. The apparent "daring" of this kind of humor frequently serves only to cover up one's inner recognition of the insecurity of his own status. The person in good command of his self-feelings can mention his own faults without losing prestige. In fact, frankness about one's faults, so long as one does not become too apologetic and boresome, helps to create respect in others and certainly promotes friendly feelings, just as boasting operates to the contrary.
V. How To Be a Good Follower. People vary widely in temperament; some are by past experience and original nature inclined to be leaders, others are likewise predisposed to be good followers. The quality of leadership or "follower-ship" is frequently a life pattern which varies according to circumstances: some people are leaders in every relationship, others are as truly followers. But most of us are likely to lead out under one circumstance and follow under another where we are not so sure of our ascendance over the other person involved, although we may still have a general tendency to either lead or follow as a general habit. That leadership is not desired by everyone, is borne out by the fact that faithful followers sometimes refuse advancement to positions of more responsibility with more prestige or better pay. They say they would rather have less prestige or pay than make the adjustment. They would rather do a routine job they know well than a more variable one where more thinking is required. The art of being a good follower or subordinate is therefore of value to most of us. Good Church followers are those who respect the authority of the leaders. As long as we are confident they have better judgment and insight than we, to follow is easy. We are good followers when we do not openly question our leaders' judgment. We show our respect by prompt and enthusiastic response to their wishes. The poorest kind of followers are those who countermand the orders of their superior officers and use their own judgment as opposed to theirs. This we call insubordination; it is one of the most common reasons for people losing their positions in the Church and in industry. If we think we have better ideas than our superior officers we need not smother them necessarily, but much tact is required to get them adopted. Argument accomplishes only one thing: bad RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE feelings. Let your superior accidentally find your ideas for himself so that he doesn't "lose any face" by having you tell him what to do. To tell someone openly how to do his business simply builds up resistance to your ideas, when actually the leader might like to adopt them if he could without losing his pride. To follow when the leader lacks insight or is weak is very difficult. But argument and over-aggressiveness on the part of the follower does not make the latter into a leader. Insight and consideration of the personalities of others are the most important qualifications of a leader, and an aspiring one must learn to manage people, including his leader, before he can become a leader.
VI. How To Get the Most Out of Your Followers. The way to influence your followers is to appreciate first of all what was said about being a good follower. Give your subordinates credit for what they do. Only recognition of their "place in the sun" makes them want to give their best to the work at hand. Nagging and finding fault are as fatal in other personal relations as they are in rearing a family. Destructive criticism naturally undermines the pride or value the follower puts on himself. When a person becomes resentful of criticism, he is attempting to "save his face." Backbiting and resentment are contagious and undermine the morale of everyone who listens to the complaints of the disgruntled. It therefore behooves the leader to avoid arousing bitterness in the followers by harsh criticism improperly administered. (See problem 4 at the end of the lesson.) When criticising a subordinate, LESSON DEPARTMENT first praise his work where it rightfully deserves it; then let him answer questions to himself about how he can improve; let him find the criticism as though it is partly his own idea. It makes him feel better when you appear to respect his ability to find what is wrong. An effective method in some cases is to disarm him by pointing out in a kindly way and admitting as far as possible beforehand the alibis he is likely to make. This approach avoids an open affront to the worker's ego and thereby prevents building up resistance to new ideas and criticism. For the leader to admit a similar mistake or fault saves the follower's pride and establishes friendly feeling between tke leader and follower. Enthusiasm is contagious and one of the most valuable assets of the leader. This is no more true anywhere than in Church work. Someone has said that there are no good or poor groups of workers?only good or poor leaders. Leadership depends much upon the enthusiasm the leader has for his cause. Joseph Smith and Brigham Young had great enthusiasm for their work?and the ability to pass it on to their followers. They, like Jesus, were great because through their leadership they imbued their followers with great enthusiasm for the cause they espoused. VII. Concerning the Art of Friendship. A friendship grows when there is a community of interests between two people, when they mutually satisfy certain needs for recognition, sharing of joys and sorrows, and expression to one's inner feelings and aspirations. Friends must be good listeners on occasion. Sometimes, 845 one party of the friendship is docile and submissive, the other domineering. The submissive party gains recognition through the fact that the other one cares to dominate him, and the dominating one finds in the friendship a "kingdom to rule? which he may not find anywhere else. However, most friendships rest on common interests and enthusiasms, or enjoyment of the same things,?and sometimes even through sharing the same enemies. Most joys are made more intense by mutual participation of others. Laird made a study of the reasons why people are not liked. A few of the reasons found are expressed in the following questions. They are presented here to show some of the obstacles to forming and maintaining friendly relations. The questions are only each fifth question in Laird's inventory (quoted by Starch, et al. Page 272): | 1. Can you always be depended upon to do what you say you will? 5. Do you refrain from showing off how much you know? 10. Do you keep from domineering others? ?15. Do you avoid finding fault with everyday things? 20. Do you always control your temper? 25. Do you have patience with modern ideas? 30. Do you avoid asking favors of others? 35. Are you conservative in politics? 40. Do you avoid borrowing things? 45. Do you avoid making fun of people to their faces? (Laird, 846 D. A. Why We Don't Like People, pages 300-31. New York; Glaser, 1933 second edition). The answers to these questions give a picture of one's ability to make friends. Notice that the questions are directed to specific habits of dealing with people. VIII. Hew to Get Along With Yourself. If you are really interested in other people for their own sakes, not for the personal gain you may derive from them, you will be able to praise others without strain or effort. If, however, you have sensitive feelings, if you are always concerned with defending your own ego?which is to say that you have inferiority feelings or an inferiority complex ?praise requires the greatest of effort and even embarrassment. In this case, to praise means to you that you admit your own inferiority. But the best medicine for feelings of inferiority is to get your thoughts off your own shortcomings. What better antidote for inferiority feelings is there than to receive praise, and praise freely and sincerely given paves the way for others to praise you. Bitter rivalries often arouse feelings of inferiority and an absorption in one's own inner thoughts. The thought stream flows inward. Psychologists call this tutroversion. Introverts are more interested in their own thoughts than in the outside world, and more interested in inanimate things than in people' They would rather read a book than see a ball game, and often they "feel just miserable." Their feelings are easily hurt. In extreme degrees introversion means much the same thing as emotional instability, and is often associated with inferiority feelings. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Introversion is opposed to sociability. Introverts find it difficult to praise others, and therefore they have few friends and are seldom praised. Because they have few friends, they are not much interested in social things, and their personalities become warped so that free communion with others is difficult?just as one has difficulty speaking a foreign language after a few years of disuse. This inefficiency in social relations is unpleasant to the introvert and drives him farther into his shell, "to walk unhappily alone." (In this connection, for those who care to pursue this line of thought further, see H. C. Link's Return to Religion, New York; Macmillan, 1936.) Extreme introversion is an unhealthful condition. Only. By living with others can we gain the praise and recognition upon which our egos are nourished. If you would get along with yourself, learn to get along with others. He who loses his life in the service of others shall truly find it. Problems for Discussion 1. Discuss the practical value of the Golden Rule as a guide to getting along with people, in the home, in business, and in Church work. "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them," (Matthew 7:12). 2. Show how practice of the second great commandment contributes to mental health: "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself," (Matthew 22:36-40). 3. What is the significance of the ability to give genuine praise, as related to good personality adjustment? 4, Read Doctrine and Covenants LESSON DEPARTMENT 121:34-46. Show why the Priesthood does become an ineffective kind of leadership if based upon '"'unrighteous dominion." Show why reproof "betimes with sharpness," is doubly effective when followed by expressions of love and appreciation. (See v. 43) 5. Why do people who are selfcentered seldom make good leaders?. 6. What would you say is the best formula for getting along with people? The best formula for getting along with yourself? 7. Interpret in the light of what you have learned from this lesson about leadership, the following statement: "A sales manager, speaking to his subordinates who in turn were district managers 847 with men working under them, said, "As the boss is, so is the gang." How does this same principle apply to the organization units of the Relief Society? Reference for Further Study 1. Bennett, M. E., Building Your Life, pages 240-251, New York: Whittlesey House, 1935. 2. Starch, D., et al., Controlling Human Behavior, pages 258-299 New York; Macmillan, 1936. 3. Morgan, J. J. B., Keeping a Sound Mind, pages 385-414; New York; Macmillan, 1934. 4. Webb, E. T., & Morgan, J. J. B., Strategy In Handling People, pages 7-59 especially, but see the table of contents; Chicago; Boulton, Pierce & Co., 1931. Education for Family Life FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS LESSON THREE SECURITY THROUGH FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS By Paul Popenoe, Sc. D. (Director Institute of Family Relations, Los Angeles, Calif.) EACH member of the family has somewhat different needs, in respect to security, because: I. The' home means something different to each one. Women value companionability in a husband. A man may be a "good provider," may be a community leader, may be a person of fine character in other ways; but if he always acts as if his wife were an inferior person, if he ridicules her Opinions and acts as if it were not worth while to talk over any serious subject with her, she is not likely to be satisfied with him as a husband. She will lack that feeling of security which is essentional to self-respect and efficiency. The average man, on the other hand, values a wife not because she is intellectually satisfying,? intellectual comradeship is rarely the prime motive in his choice of a spouse,?but because she is emotionally satisfying and a good home-maker. Each partner must therefore recognize the other's special needs and meet them. II. People differ greatly by nature in their degree of self-sufficiency. People high in this trait 848 do not ask advice, perhaps do not take it if given unasked. A valuable trait in business, it may be a handicap in marriage. Women are likely to be less self-sufficient than men; they are more anxious to talk things over, to get the husband's advice on even trivial matters. Sometimes a husband who does not understand this, and who is himself high in self-sufficiency, is irked by his wife's frequent requests that he express an opinion on some matter which he thinks she should decide for herself. Far from expressing resentment in such a case, the husband must recognize it as part of his job, and go out of his way to help his wife. She wants, more than almost anything else, to please him; she can have no feeling of security if he refuses to give her the help that she thinks she needs. On the other hand, of course, many a wife needs to develop more self-reliance. III. The children's feeling of security is closely bound up with the need for harmony between their parents. <A long series of studies reveals how much the child's behavior may be affected if he feels that he cannot depend on the stability and permanence of his home. Beyond this, the children must develop a feeling of emotional security on their own account by gradually getting some understanding (proportionate to their age and grasp) of: (a) themselves, their own capacities and limitations; (b) sex; (c) God, religion, and death (these three ideas overlap greatly in the mind of the little child); (d) wealth, power, and authority (ideas which overlap similarly). Naturally, the child is not going to solve all these problems, but if RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE he is to feel secure he must at least feel that they do not represent something about which he is being deliberately misled, or that some important fact of which he has an inkling is being withheld deliberately from him. There are two general areas of security which are most critical for the average family: 1, Financial. This goes without saying. There are few indeed who have not had to struggle with this phase of security. All studies agree that it is not so much the amount of money available, as the attitude toward it, which decides the family's success. The depression has brought some hardship for almost everyone; yet it has probably strengthened just as many families as it has weakened. Many a couple have had to cooperate more closely, have had to give up extravagances and harmful luxuries, have had to develop the resources of the home for entertainment instead of spending money "downtown," and have been spiritually strengthened as a consequence. Fair division of the family income, whether it be large or small, is necessary to a feeling of security on the part of all. 2. Emotional. Every experienced person knows that the feeling of emotional security in a successful marriage is one of its most valuable elements, and one which can hardly be found outside of marriage. It is recognized as so precious, that any threat to it brings serious disturbances, usually described as jealousy. Jealousy is popularly supposed to be an evil thing. This perhaps results from a failure to think through the problem. One is said to be jealous of one's LESSON DEPARTMENT good name, of the honor of one's country, etc.; similarly one should be jealous of the success of one's marriage,?which means _ that jealousy, properly speaking, is a recognition that one legitimately possesses something of great value and is determined to defend the possession. It is one of the cements that holds the home together on a firm foundation. It is not a feeling of jealousy that should be reprobated, but an infantile way of expressing it by tantrums, by making life miserable for the partner,?as. If a husband would treasure his wife because of her high nuisance value! If the security of the home is threatened, each partner should recognize the fact and make a determined effort to improve the situation, not by violence, threats, or hysterics but by making the home and the self more attractive; by studying the partner to find what he wants and legitimately should expect out of the marriage and then seeing that he gets it. 3. For women, there is a third area of security half-way between the two just mentioned. Many women find their feeling of security is closely associated with their ability to dress properly. Men need more understanding of the legitimate place of clothes in a woman's life. Studies show (though probably the average man will be incredulous) that the average husband spends more money on his clothes than his wife spends on her clothes. MoreOver, as a woman grows older, she tends to spend less on her wardrobe-?w hich may sometimes mean that she is slipping into a rut and "going to seed," though it may also mean that she has learned to buy more wisely. In 849 any event, it is hard for a woman to have a feeling of emotional security if her husband or her budget obliges her to wear the same hat three years in succession. As a convenient means for analysing the amount of security present, one may check up by reference to the "three areas of human desire" that have often been described: (1) Every woman wants to feel that she is a member in good standing of some social group; that she "belongs"; that she is not an outcast but that she has a feeling of solidarity with the world around her; in a word, her social needs must be satisfied. This means a normal recreational life, n o r m al associations through the church and community agencies. (2) In addition to this feeling that she is approved by the world in general, she wants to be particularly approved by some one man,?to mean something to him that no other woman can mean, and vice versa. In a word, she must satisfy the needs of her lovelife. (3) But in addition to being a member in good standing of the Great Society, and Mr. Soandso's wife, she also wants to amount to something on her own account, to have an individual reason for existence, to be or do something different from anyone else. This means self-expression through some creative outlet and, technically, results in "satisfaction of the ego". Religious experience is part of this; so is motherhood. For one reason or another, some women will be shut off from one of these three areas of satisfaction (which apply also, in principle, to men). They must develop 850 the others more fully to compensate as far as possible for the one that is missed. But the average married woman should have a normal life in these three respects, and her feeling of security will be ensured by a balance between her satisfactions in these three areas. Questions and Problems 1. A woman who is seeking a divorce says, "Ideally every child ought to have two parents; but I believe it is better for my boy to be brought up by his mother alone, in an atmosphere of peace, than to be brought up by two parents who are continually quarreling before him." What would be your comment on this? 2. A highly self-sufficient and capable woman who had been a successful teacher married a man who is emotionally quite dependent on her,?he acts in many ways like a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE child toward a mother, expecting her to solve all his problems. With such a husband she lacks a feeling of security; while the slightest indication of weaning him emotionally makes him feel insecure. How shall she proceed to improve this situation? 3. Dr. G. V. Hamilton asked two hundred married persons (half men and half women) what they found most objectionable in their partners. Most of the men said their wives talked too much; most of the women said their husbands did not talk enough. What changes in the education of young people would be likely to result in greater harmony in marriage, at this point? 4, Apart from those mentioned in this lesson, name three things you think husbands can do to give their wives a greater feeling of security in the home, and three things a wife can do to increase the husband's feeling of security. Literature for the Missions TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH LESSON 6 JOSEPHINE NADIN LAMBERT A Worthy Daughter of Belgium OSEPHINE NADIN LAMJ BERT was the tenth child of Henry Joseph Nadin and Elizabeth Damard, there being five girls and five boys in the family. She was born June 18, 1860, in St. Severen Province of Liege, Belgium. Her parents being Catholics, she was reared in the Catholic faith. She attended public school only a few years, as children were required to help with the livelihood when very young. At the age of thirteen years she began to work ina bakery. At this early age she was keeping company with a young man by the name of Joseph Hawkens and continued to do so for four years. He was drafted into the army for two years. When he returned his mother insisted that he marry a girl with money. Mention is made of this courtship because of the bearing it had on her life later. She then met Alexander Lambert whom she married at the LESSON DEPARTMENT Catholic Church, December 14, 1888. They lived in the farming community of St. Severen though her husband worked some ten miles away in an iron factory, leaving Monday morning and returning Saturday night. He boarded during the week with a family who belonged to the Baptist Church. While there he came in contact with a Mormon missionary, Elder Replenger. Great was his joy when he came home and informed his wife of the Mormon doctrine, but she was not interested. At this time there were two boys in the family, Henry and Leo, who were almost old enough to receive the Catholic instructions. But the husband and father believing the Catholic principles were in error forbade the sons to take any part in that church. This hurt Mrs. Lambert very much, as their friends and relatives ridiculed them. Living in a Catholic neighborhood, ridiculed, and the children picked on and tormented at school, it became necessary for the family to move to the community where the husband was working. There they were visited by the Elders of the Church. Mrs. Lambert finally accepted their teachings after much persuading on the part of her husband and was baptized on November 12, 1896, but not without a battle with herself and not without much praying. We can understand it was a great undertaking on their part, as they were the first converts in Belgium. All of their relatives had given them up as spiritually lost and wanted no more to do with them. The desire to go to Zion now became uppermost in their minds and this they finally arranged to do. A Mormon _ missionary, 851 Charles Beus, laboring in that mission at the time, advised the family to go to his home town, Hooper, Utah. This they decided to do and set sail for Utah April 25, 1902. The boys were thirteen and fifteen years of age and the baby girl nine months old. Sister Lambert was sick all the Way, even on the train. Naturally this made the baby sick and the parents were very much worried about the child. They arrived at their destination safely in May, 1902. Elder Beus' father met them and took them to his home, also helped them to get located. The family arrived without means in a strange country, speaking a language they did not understand. But these circumstances did not crush them. They set to work with a will. Sister Lambert was always very saving and hard working. She was faithful in the Church, always doing her duty, always paying her tithing and fast offerings. Through this the Lord has blessed her with good health and the ability to learn the language and to live comfortably financially. They went through the House of the Lord on January 22, 1904, and were sealed together and to their three children. After being here a few years Sister Lambert dreamed of her former suitor, Joseph Hawkens; in fact she dreamed of him several nights in succession. She could not understand this so she asked the opinion of her husband. They came to the conclusion that they should do the temple work for this man. This they did and she has not dreamed of him since. They also did the temple work for a great many dead relatives. They took up farming and have 852 become very well known in this part of the country. In 1924 Sister Lambert and her husband left Utah and spent two years in the French Mission laboring in the part of Belgium from which they had originally come. They had the pleasure of converting and baptizing several relatives. While there Sister Lambert helped in Relief Society and preached from house to house. She assisted the Relief Society and other organizations to put on socials and bazaars to raise money to help build a new chapel at Seraing, which was erected shortly after the Lamberts left for home. The people of Belgium were very bitter when these good people were back there, because of the hardships they had gone through during the World War, and it was very hard to make them understand. In one instance Sister Lambert was talking to an old gentleman about our religion and our God. He said if there had been a God, surely He would not have let the people suffer like they had during the war. When the Lamberts arrived in Belgium on their mission there were about twenty members and when they left there were one hundred members in the Seraing Branch. Brother Lambert baptized thirteen members. Sister Lambert's pleasing personality and kind ways made her welcome wherever she went. The Lamberts enjoyed their missionary labors a great deal. It was much harder to say farewell to their friends when their mission was completed than it had been when they left the first time. The last meeting they attended in the branch was more like a funeral than a sacrament meeting. The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE members seemed to feel as badly as did Elder and Sister Lambert. About two years after they had returned to their home their oldest son, Henry, left a wife to care for five children while he labored in the same mission that his parents had worked in. Sister Josephine Lambert has a firm testimony of the divinity of the Church of Jesus Christ and thanks God that He has let her live on this earth to a ripe old age, and for the opportunity she has had to do her bit for the improvement and advancement of the Church. Items for Consideration 1. A generation ago the missionaries and members of the Church met persecution in every mission of the Church. Now there is little or no persecution anywhere. How do you explain this?; 2. Did it take more courage to join the Church then than now? Explain. 3. Were members more devoted and faithful then than now? Explain. 4. What reasons have you for believing that Sister Lambert became a sincerely converted Latter-day Saint? 5. What sacrifices did she make for her new religion?, 6. What answer have you to the assertion that "if there had been a God He would not have let the people suffer as many did during the World War"? 7. To what extent are you benefited by the life of a fine, true woman like Josephine N. Lambert? 8. How could temple work benefit Joseph Hawkens? Magazine Drive SUCCESS is measured in many ways. Sometimes the attainment of certain goals means success; other times the spirit with which work is carried forward. Sometimes the amount of good resulting from an activity is the determining factor, while again an activity may be called successful if it only provides stimuli for increased effort in the future. Judged by any standard the 1938 Magazine Drive has been a success. A large majority of the wards and many stakes have gone over the top.. The spirit with which the Drive has been conducted has been one of enthusiasm, cooperation and devotion to service. We feel confident that good will result from this activity, and as past experience qualifies us for future achievement, the Magazine looks ahead to a great future. We most sincerely thank those who have contributed to the success of the 1938 Magazine Drive: the faithful, energetic Magazine Agents, the executive officers who have given such unusual cooperation, our many thousands of subscribers living in all parts of the world. It is our desire to make the Magazine as informative, inspirational, and enjoyable as possible; to have it render genuine service to the Relief Society organization and to the homes into which it goes. FOUR HIGHEST PERCENTAGES GROUP A Ward Stake Enroll. No. Sub. Pet. Magazine Agent Mesa Second Maricopa 100 160 160 Lula R. Stewart Provo Fourth Utah 127 190 150 Flora Buggart Springville First Kolob 101 130 129 Eugene Bird Richards Granite 107 128 120 Irene Irvine GROUP B. Twelfth Ensign 53 90 170 Sarah Jerrell McGill Nevada 70 111 160 Louisa Johnson Dimond Oakland 71 112 158 Ida Torgerson Long Beach Long Beach 62 91 147 Ermina Joseph GROUP C Hurstville Australian Mission 10 31 310 Rit Wilson Worland Big Horn 19 ay 300 Clara Gheen Galesburg Northern States Mis. 9 27 300 Rena Custer Vernon St. Johns 10 26 260 Ella L. Grau HONOR ROLL HE above receive high honors and will be presented with a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine at the Relief Society General Conference, April 1939. WARDS 100% AND OVER GROUP A Blanding San Juan 131 139 106 Doris Shumway Pocatello Fifth Pocatello 105 110 105 Jean Henderson Lovell Big Horn 113 117 104. LeGene Asay Eighteenth Ensign 141 141 100 Iverne Wallace Lincoln Granite 134 134 100 Mable Flandro Ogden Twelfth Mount Ogden 124 124 100 Esther H. Porter Adams Hollywood 103 103 100 Carrie Ainge Salem Palmyra 102 102 100 Lettie Peterson 854 Ward Phoenix First Twentieth Fourteenth Phoenix Second Roy Phoenix Third Malad First Huntington Park Ogden Second Hooper Idaho Falls First Ogden Thirteenth Mesa First Grace First Burley Third Hillcrest Washington Raymond First | Ogden Nineteenth Twenty-seventh Antimony Grandview Raymond Second Afton North Brighton Second Elmhurst Idaho Falls Second Springville Second Ogden Twentieth South Gate Central Park Heber Third Ogden Eighteenth Harvard Twenty-first Malad Second Walnut Park Nibley Park Ogden Seventeenth Eagar Wilshire Berkeley Logan Eleventh Santa Monica Bountiful First Tremonton First Eleventh Franklin Ogden Eleventh Sparks, Nevada Burley First Magna West Bountiful Hollywood Vernal First Bountiful Third University Logan Second RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE GROUP B (Enrollment 50 to 99 Inclusive) Enroll. No. Sub. Pet. Stake Phoenix Ensign Salt Lake Phoenix Weber Phoenix Malad Los Angeles Weber Weber. North Idaho Falls Ogden Maricopa Bannock Burley Grant Eastern States Mis. Taylor Weber Ensign Garfield Grant Taylor Star Valley Box Elder Oakland Idaho Falls Kolob Ogden Los Angeles Grant Wasatch Mount Ogden Liberty Ensign Malad Los Angeles Granite Mount Ogden St. Johns Hollywood Oakland Logan Hollywood South Davis Bear River Ensign Franklin Weber California Mission Burley Oquirrh South Davis Pasadena Uintah South Davis Ensign Logan 65 93 60 87 54 51 50 62 84 72 61 82 93 131 81 143 141 135 134 133 133 128 126 125 124 123 118 116 116 115 114 114 114 114 113 112 111 111 111 110 110 110 109 109 109 109 108 108 108 107 107 107 106 106 106 105 106 105 105 105 103 103 103 103 103 103 102 102 102 101 101 101 101 Magazine Agent Lilly A. Harris Louise Mullett Bashua Chapman Davis Mary J. Cosby Jane Hyden Lillian Keller Esther Hess Lenore Merrills Ethel McCarty Florence Naisbitt Una McDonald Edith 'Wilson Esther H. Miller Esther Ashbacker Nettie D. Parker Gwen Mecham Ruth B. Young Fanny C. Litchfield Toss W. Kersch Jeannette McArthur Mary K. Riddle Mae B. Glazier Ruth Salmon Melba Erickson Sarah Horsley Lavina Smithen Hazel Goodwin Florence Simkins Mattie Manning Naomi Whale Hedy Davies Annie K. Moulton Netta Burton Irene C. Brain Mary H. Jordan Violet Condie Mellie Cook Emma Armstrong Mary Bertagnoli Lurana Eagar Hilda Jorgensen Norma G. Davis Amy W. Affleck Cora J. Hodges Zara Sabin Dorma Brough D. Montgomery Blanche Cook Ella Burt Merlyn Lampman Nettie T. Oliverson Emily Petterson Cristie E. Wood Charlotte S. O'Connor Katie Horrocks Emma Riley Emma Teudt Inez Thain Ward Ogden First Emigration Ensign Mesa Third Richfield Second Thirteenth Grantsville Second Chevy Chase Draper First San Francisco Lincoln Cody Clinton Glendale Mound Valley Rapid City, S. D. Elko Geneva Heber Arlington Grand Island, Neb. Sublett Milo Ten Sleep Buffalo Pacheco La Grande First Charleston Wells Alpine Montebello Basin Wendover Beaver Creek Hilliard Queensland Cincinnati Pine Pomona Vallejo Palo Alto Ruth Philadelphia Arcadia Pella Rosette Eastmont Manchester Balboa Chester Auburn Tempe San Rafael Duchesne Baker Juarez North Hollywood Center MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL 855 GROUP B?Continued Stake Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. Magazine Agent Weber 86 86 100 Margaret Verniew Bonneville 82 82 100 Ida von Nordeck Ensign 80 80 100 Ellen Smith Maricopa 79 79 100 Zelma Huffaker Sevier 76 76 100 Elizabeth Magleby Ensign 72 72 100 Alma Erickson Tooele 71 71 100 Glenna Millward Eastern States Mis. 70 70 100 Betty Benson East Jordan 59 59 100 Florence Sjoblom San Francisco 56 56 100 Sarah L. Pomeroy Idaho Falls 55 55 100 Elsie T. Lee GROUP C (Enrollment up to 49 Inclusive) Big Horn, 22 49 223 Ethel Brailsford Weber 34 71 209 Angeline Child Phoenix 14 29 207 Julia S. Kremer Bannock 19 38 200 Ida B. Condie N. Cent. States Mis. 8 15 187. Melba Thomas Nevada 29 54 186 Fawn S. Noren Montpelier 18 33 183 Rosetta Teuscher Snowflake 16 28 175 Elva Shelley Hollywood 4] 71 173. Edith Cowan N. Cent. States Mis. 15 26 173 Maude O. West Raft River 7 12 171 Sylvia Olsen North Idaho Falls 15 25 167 Mary Wilding Big Horn 11 18 164 Annie Duncan Eastern States Mis. 8 13 163 Naomi Joy Juarez 8 13 163 Margaret B. Cluft Union 36 57 158 Emma Stringham Wasatch 43 66 153 Mary Casper Nevada 21 32 152 Nellie Hyde St. Johns 24 36 150 Jessie Jepson Los Angeles 16 23 144 Grace Davenport Big Horn 21 30 143. Lova Kinghorn Tooele 19 27 142 Florence Howell North Idaho Falls 12 17 142 Wanda Wieles Woodruff 12 17 142 Naomi Lym Australian Mission 27 38 141 Nell Jeffs Brown Northern States Mis. 20 28 140 Lula Snell Maricopa 18 25 139 Ina P. Hunt San Bernardino 18 25 139 Mary Snell Oakland 18 25 139 Ida Fullen San Francisco 32 44 138 Charlotte Showers Nevada 35 48 137 Lucy Benson Eastern States Mis. 25 34 136 Claire S. Abbott Duchesne 26 35 135 Rose D. Gilbert Burley 38 51 134 Alice Freer Curlew 9 12 133. Jennie Hirschi Los Angeles 30 39 130 Vera Wanlass Los Angeles 42 54 129 Gladys Silberstein San Francisco 40 51 128 Fredrikka Duffner Yellowstone 36 46 128 Julia Worrell Eastern States Mis. 7 9 128 Jessie Wiggins Phoenix 22 28 127 Lola Turley San Francisco 11 14 127 Louise Bernard Duchesne 42 53 126 Minnie Wheeler Union 34 43 126 Nettie Shurtliff Juarez 34 43 126 Mildred Farnsworth Pasadena 40 50 125 Louise Phippen Wasatch 24 30 125 Bertha Sweat 856 Ward Montello Imbler Lyndhurst Bundaberg Boise Third San Jose Linrose - Sharon Groveland Herriman Claremont Tyrell's Lake Perry Thatcher Roseville Firestone Park Hatch Lansing Battle Creek Burnham Grant Harlem Dublan Slaterville Pleasant Grove 2nd Maywood Altoona Canandaigua Ogden Twenty-first Burlingame Gilbert Queen Anne Basin Lund Torrence Lehi Alameda Flagstaff Central Bellingham Tracy Baldwin Park Richie Powell Twin Groves Stockton Luna Burbank Houston Mountain View Storrs Sunset Olympia Fish Haven Leland Unity Star Pioche Hayward Redcliff RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE GROUP C?Continued Stake Mount Ogden Union Northern States Mis. Australian Mission Boise San Francisco Franklin Bear Lake Blackfoot West Jordan Oakland Taylor Box Elder Bannock Sacramento Los Angeles Idaho Northern States Mis. Northern States Mis. Young E. Jordan N. Cent. States Mis. Juarez North Weber Timpanogos Los Angeles Eastern States Mis. Eastern States Mis. Ogden San Francisco Maricopa Seattle Cassia Nevada Long Beach Maricopa Oakland Snowflake Bannock Seattle Sacramento San Bernardino Idaho Falls Big Horn Yellowstone Sacramento St. Johns Pasadena Texas Mission Alberta Carbon San Francisco Seattle ~ Bear Lake Palmyra Burley Burley Moapa Oakland Duchesne 16 12 8 4 40 35 18 Enroll. No. Sub. Pet. 125 125 125 125 123 123 122 122 121 121 121 121 120 120 120 120 120 120 120 119 119 119 118 118 117 117 117 117 115 115 115 114 114 113 113 111 111 111 111 i1l 111 110 110 110 109 109 109 108 108 107 107 107 107 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 Magazine Agent Gertrude Jordan Jessie Perry Mary Wilson Florence Pruett Eliza J. Horsfield Olga Taylor Mrs. Rill Long Zella W. Wixom Agnes Dansie Clara S. Gleason Clara E. Selk Selma Thorne Wilda Rasmussen Nellie Boller Elizabeth Winkler Valeria Johnson Emma L. Smith Esther Williams Harriet D. Foutz Emma -Beckstead Lois Haycock Bernice Coon Sylvia S. Knight Effa Williams Rose Millard Ida Sandrus Nellie Lodge Elizabeth Jacobs Ruth Bentley Jennie Lamb Etta Eskelson Nellie Martin Ellen F. Fawcett Hortense Smith Lola Williams MaRee Meuter Martha W. Thomas Pearl Christensen Ella M. Petrie Sarah Dana Lilly A. Wilcox Bertha Cooper Bertha Cozzens Selina Richards Olive Sattler Clara Snyder Nessel Thomson Viola Stone Winnefred Smith Josephine McPhie Millie Johnson Mary Anderson Harriet G. Jensen Mary Marcussen Julina Nielson Ethel O. Hanks Ora Price Eva Loomis Emily H. Moon Ward Burlington Oakland Union Chandler Acequia Farmington Utahn Bingham Kanesville San Pedro Mapleton Springdale Butler Centerville Second Woodruff Pleasant View Matthews Vermont Belvedere Bancroft Mission University Rupert First Grant Wanship Holbrook Richmond Grace Second Kimberly Marion Pittsburg Tonia Pittsburgh Huntington Beach Martinez Hartley Mud Lake Evans Cleveland Cedron Leslie Woodland Whittier Kelly Bankstown Fort Wayne Arlington Perth Renton Marsh Center Uintah } Beaumont Hobart Clinton Bloomington Des Moines Fairbanks, Alaska Oyster Bay MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL GROUP C?Continued Stake Big Horn Oakland Union Maricopa Minidoka Young Duchesne West Jordan Weber Long Beach Franklin Burley East Jordan South Davis Snowflake Ogden Los Angeles Los Angeles Los Angeles Idaho San Francisco Chicago Minidoka Los Angeles Summit Curlew Oakland Bannock Twin Falls Cassia Oakland Big Horn Eastern States Mis. Long Beach Oakland Alberta North Idaho Falls Box Elder Bannock Teton Lost River Portneuf Los Angeles Idaho Australian Mission Northern States Mis. Eastern States Mis. Australian Mission Seattle Portneuf Mount Ogden Texas Mission Australian Mission Northern States Mis. Northern States Mis. Northern States Mis. Northw, States Mis. Australian Mission Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 43 43 43 40 on 19 18 46 a7 26 24 24 39 31 31 44 71 46 70 4g 47 37 36 34 32 28 28 27 25 25 25 23 23 21 20 20 19 19 18 17 17 14 18 13 13 12 11 11 10 10 8 8 7 6 6 6 5 45 45 45 42 32% 20 19 48 28 27 25 25 40 32 32 45 72 46% 70 48 47 37 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 104 104 104 104 104 103 103 103 102 101 101 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 857 Magazine Agent Dorothy Yorgensen Elizabeth Bergman Rose Kofford Helen Cluff Winnie Osterhout Margaret Dustin Matilda Wright Salina Nerdin Arlene Hansen Olive Johnson Afton Long Hattie H. Marchant Eva Boyce LaVaun Duncan Missouri B. Smithson Alice McLane Elizabeth Bowen Rea K. Cross Oral Hales Louie Call Margurite Kenison Anna V. Anderson Adeline Simpson Fredricka Williams Bessie Hixson Letitia T. Willie Mrs. A. Morley Mildred Ray Melvina McEwen Lera Matthews Undine Kutsch Lois Bassett Elisa Bohler Edna Allred Lillian Abbott Annie Orr Florence Peterson Alice Buxton Nina Jensen Leatha Kunz Anna Fullmer May Cotrell Minerva Moshier Fern Cooper Rose Foot Margarete S. Berthold Beth Bowen Marie Marlow Martha Treasure May Bybee Minnie J. Quinne Maratha Cooley Cornelia S. Peterson Mira McInerney 858 Ward Stake Seventeenth Salt Lake 160 Cowley Big Horn 105 Ogden Eighth Ogden 111 Wells Wells 136 Waterloo Wells 126 Logan Fourth Cache 152 Hawthorne Granite 131 Rexburg Second Rexburg 105 Lovell West Big Horn 121 Whittier Wells 107 Manavu Utah 104 North Ogden Ogden 119 Forest Dale Granite 115 Preston First Franklin 109 GROUP B (Enrollment 50 to 99 Inclusive) Ogden Third North Weber 72 Burley Second Burley 95 Milwaukee Chicago 54 La Grande Second Union 51 Lehi First Lehi 82 Sutter Sacramento 57 Mesa Fourth Maricopa 78 Capitol Hill Salt Lake 59 Gunnison Gunnison 58 Queens New York 53 Edgehill Highland 97 Ririe Rigby 63 Heber Second Wasatch 84 Twenty-ninth Salt Lake 72 Fielding Bear River 65 Rexburg Fourth Rexburg 65 Idaho Falls Sixth Idaho Falls 54 Yale Bonneville 90 Shelley First Shelley 80 Rigby Second Rigby 76 Ucon North Idaho Falls 72 Park View Long Beach 71 Evanston Second Woodruff 68 Lindon Timpanogos 58 Monticello San Juan 56 Elwood Bear River 51 Menan Rigby 87 Riverdale Weber be Snowflake Snowflake 99 Ogden Seventh Ogden 78 Highland Park Highland 76 Gilmer Park Bonneville 74 Midway Second Wasatch 55 Logan Square Chicago 56 Cedar Second Parowan 95 Bonneville Utah  WARDS 75% TO 99% GROUP A INCLUSIVE (Enrollment 100 and Over) Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 145% 95 91 91 86 83 83 82 82 Magazine Agent Julia G. Miller Sarah M. Simmons Miriam Farr Annie B. Ackroyd Ada C. Nisbet Janet M. Smith Julia Carver Alice M. Howard Mildred Despain Thelma Houghton Elsie Moffitt Louise Ellis May Jenson Annabel C. Larson Isabelle Hill Mary Casper Elise B. Schuette Gertie Hibbert Mary Monk Lenore T. Jones Lucile Beck Grace Burton Anna Allcock Orilla Wilkinsen Louise Greenwood Gail Clayton Eliza Durrant Agnes Cummings Hillevi Daniels Nora Roundy Isabelle Blunck Phoebe Peterson Chloe M. Jacob Esther Christensen Dora Poole Millie Hill Lydia Curtis Edith Davis Nettie Mecham Adelia Perkins Mrs. Carl Romer Hannah Poole Belva Vance Tina Gardner and Emma Hill Jessie M. Woods Effie Chipman Rachel Watts Susanna Probst Grace Meiling Margaret Kerr Zella B. Matheson Mrs. W. H. Prusse Spanish Fork Second Palmyra Spanish Fork First Palmyra 89 69 Ward Ely Byron Ogden 22nd Ogden Sixth Thirty-third Emerson St. Johns Idaho Falls Third Rexburg Third Rigby First Heber First Windsor Hyrum First Fairview Downey Archer Le Grand Burton Yalecrest Vernal Second Montpelier Fourth Twenty-fourth Hurricane South American Fork 4th Moreland Provo Sixth Price Second Centerville First - Clearfield Ammon Paris Second Joseph City East Mill Creek Idaho Falls Fifth Hyrum Third San Bernardino Holden Twenty-second Kanosh Richfield Third Providence First Fillmore Second Springdale Garden City Egin West Seattle Indianapolis, Ind.