Ministry and Authority of the Early Apostles
President David O. McKay (Address, Relief Society Conference, Oct. 4, 1938.)
IT is always a joy to me to meet with Relief Society Sisters on such an occasion as this, but when the assembly is thrilled with such beautiful music as that to which we have listened this morning, to be with you is truly an inspiration. I congratulate these musicians upon the excellent service they have rendered. I do not know that I have ever heard anything that seemed to impress me more deeply than the quartette and this string trio?it is good to be here. When I accepted Sister Cannon's invitation to speak to the workers in the Theological Department of Relief Society, I had in mind meeting a group of officers and teachers especially engaged in that department work. I did not anticipate meeting such a large audience as this on the first day of conference. I congratulate you workers upon your response to the invitation of your leaders to study the ways and means of carrying on this great Relief Society work. As announced my subject is: "The Ministry and Authority of the Ancient Apostles". The sisters of the Church are fortunate in having the privilege this year of studying the lives and teachings of these men. I can think of no subject that will bear greater fruit in interest and profit than the course which you have outlined. This morning I am going to invite you first to become acquainted with these twelve men personally to such a limited extent as lies within our power to become acquainted with them, and, second, to consider their message as it was given to them by the Savior.
Chosen by Inspiration The first important point to note is the prayerfulness with which Christ approached the choosing of His Twelve. If you will read in the sixth chapter of Luke from the twelfth to the sixteenth verses you will find there a very brief account of Christ's choosing the Twelve. The first verse, especially, is significant: "And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a mountain to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God." (There is a very clear exposition at once of two divine personages in the Godhead?God the Father to whom Christ prayed, God the Son who had the responsibility of establishing the gospel in the Meridian of Times and throughout all ages.) "And when it was day, he called unto him his disciples; and of them he chose Twelve, whom also he named apostles."
Significance of the Number Twelve Some have asked whether the number twelve had any significance. Well, it has. The people to whom Jesus first came were the descendants of the twelve tribes of Israel. They were looking forward to an earthly king, as well as one who would stand at the head of these twelve tribes. Now it is not clearly stated anywhere in the scriptures whether Jesus chose the Twelve because there were twelve tribes of Israel, but the implication is that He did. We find in secular literature the following: MINISTRY OF THE EARLY APOSTLES "The apostles were twelve in number. The number was intended to be significant. Its import could not have been lost on the Twelve themselves when they were first called, or on the multitude who witnessed their election. Our Lord was evidently thinking of the twelve tribes of Israel. Though ten of the tribes had largely disappeared, the mission of the Messiah was to be to all the tribes of the nation. Hence the fitness of the number chosen by our Lord. There was one apostle for each Tribe. Nor should it be overlooked that the employment of this number was a fresh claim on the part of Jesus to be the Messiah. His disciples would argue this: 'Who but the Messiah could venture to create a body or group of twelve disciples only? Nobody had done so before, no prophet, not even the Baptist. Jesus then must be the Messiah.'"
Again we read: "Their number, corresponding to that of the Twelve tribes, shows that they are destined primarily to work among the children of Israel, to whom, accordingly, they made their first appeal in Jerusalem." Now, if that were all we had, I would hesitate about even mentioning this, associating the number twelve with the twelve tribes, but if you will turn to the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 29, verse 12, you will find the following: "Again, verily, verily, I say unto you, and it hath gone forth in a firm decree, by the will of the Father, that mine apostles, the Twelve which were with me in my ministry at Jerusalem, shall stand at my right hand at the day of my coming in a pillar of fire, being clothed with robes of righteousness, with crowns upon their heads, in glory even as I am, to judge the whole house of Israel, even as many as have loved me and kept my commandments, and none else." I think we need not pause longer on the significance of the number. It is a fact that that number was chosen, the group consisted of twelve, that it was so during Christ's ministry among men. As far as we can find in the Acts of the Apostles it continued to be so. It is very difficult to find out whether every vacancy that occurred was filled, thus continuing the exact number of twelve, but we do know that the first vacancy made by Judas Iscariot was filled before the work was taken up, and we can readily infer that that policy was continued throughout the ministry of the Twelve, at any rate in this dispensation the Lord again chose twelve, and He also chose twelve from among the Nephites; so it would seem that there is some significance to the number as it relates to the Council.
Names of Twelve First Chosen Now, as you are going to study about them, it is well to get acquainted with them as best we can. If you read one account, you will find certain names; you read another and you find other names; you read a third, and you will have still a different list. Follow me now, just for a moment. Luke tells us that the first apostle the Savior chose was Simon, the son of Jona.. Simon, son of Jona, was the name by which he was best known among his associates, but Christ called him Cephas, which in the Hebrew means rock or stone, and in the Greek the meaning of stone or rock is Petras, or Peter. It is significant that the Savior recognized in Peter that rock-like, granitelike quality, and his ''wavering"' later did not believe that character. 808 Andrew was his brother. These men were fishermen. James and John were sons of Zebedee; their mother's name was Salome, and she was proud of her boys. James and John were known as the "Sons of Thunder". One illustration in the Bible tells us that when Jesus and the Twelve came through Samaria at one time, they were treated with disrespect to such an extent that James and John rebelled against the treatment and said, "Lord give us power to call down fire from Heaven and destroy them." Not the loving nature usually attributed to John, is it? As a matter of fact, he was a fearless man, unyielding for the right. James became the first martyr of the Church, and there he showed his magnificent character. Old Herod set his enmity and revenge upon James. James was betrayed by one of the soldiers, who; as he looked upon James and saw his character, repented, so tradition tells us, asked forgiveness and died with the first great martyr. There are several James names, so keep this one in mind?James the son of Zebedee, brother of John the Beloved. He was James the Great, chosen as one of the first Twelve. Philip is next. Philip was a native of Bethsaida of whom little is known. Tradition says he preached in Phrygia and died in Hierapolis. He is not the Philip who preached the gospel in Samaria (Acts 8:5). Bartholomew is next. Bartholomew undoubtedly is the same as Nathanael, whom Philip sought when Philip first became acquainted with the Savior, and Bartholomew is undoubtedly the Nathaniel, in referring to whom Jesus said. "Behold an Israelite indeed in whom there is no guile." Matthew the Publican, as he styles himself, was the son of Alphaeus. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE We do not know whether that Alphaeus was the father of James or not. If so, they were brothers, but we cannot determine. Matthew was the son of Alphaeus, and as a Collector of Customs at Capernaum on the Sea of Galilee became known as "The Publican". He associated with the common people, who were looked down upon by the Jews. He was also known as Levi. Thomas, surnamed '"Didymus" which means a twin, was also chosen at this time. Now we come to those whose identity it is a little difficult to determine. Another James, known as "James the Less" to distinguish him from James the son of Zebedee, was also a son of Alphaeus. Alphaeus was a common name, so he might not be the same as Matthew's father. James "the Less" must not be confused, however, with James the brother of the Lord. You cannot find anywhere that James "the brother of the Lord" was sustained as one of the Twelve. It cannot be proved, but he might have been chosen to succeed James the Great, I do not know. If he did not believe at first in the divine mission of his brother, he did accept Him after the resurrection, and that is one of the points I wish to mention later. "James the Less" is not the author of the "Epistle according to James". The author of this Epistle was the Lord's brother who sat in the council in Jerusalem when the primitive church was threatened with destruction over some question about Jews and Gentiles. Following "James the Less" we have Simon the Zelotes, or Simon the Canaanite, both are the same; in fact, the Canaanite is the Aramaic word for Zealot, so Simon the Zealot was probably, before he met Jesus, a member of the sect of the Zealots, a sort of voluntary ecclesiastical po- MINISTRY OF THE EARLY APOSTLES lice to see that the law was not broken with impunity. We know very little about him, he is the least known of the Twelve Apostles. Then we come to Judas, or Jude. Do not confuse him with another Judas, for we have two in the Twelve. Judas was the brother of James. Now this man was called Lebbaeus and also Thaddaeus. Authorities are not agreed whether he is the same as our Lord's brother Judas, author of the Epistle of Jude. Then finally we come to Judas Iscariot?Judas of Kerioth. Great Men Profitable Company It is said "Great men" (and I will add great women also) "taken up in any way are profitable company. We cannot look, however, imperfectly upon a great man without gaining something by him. He is the living light-fountain which it is good and pleasant to be near. The light which enlightens, which has enlightened the darkness of the world; and this not as a kindled lamp only, but rather as a natural luminary shining by the gift of Heaven; a flowing light-fountain, as I say, of native, original insight, of manhood and heroic nobleness; in whose radiance all souls feel that it is well with them." I am congratulating you upon the opportunity that is yours during the coming year to be in the radiance of these living light-fountains. Peter was a fisherman, so was Andrew, so were James and John, I believe Nathanael was; Judas Iscariot was not. I think Simon the Zealot was not, but they were humble men. Matthew was a Collector of Customs. Why call these men great? Few men in our community are more humble than these men were, and yet here, face to face, we are talking about the benefit of mingling 809 with great men. I will tell you why they were great?simply because they accepted the teachings and ideals of Jesus Christ. They were not great in the realm of finance; they were not great politically; they were not great authors, but in the realm of character they were supremely great, and that is encouraging to me, and to you and to your husbands and your sons. No occupation is so humble, no labor so common as to prevent a man from entering into that realm of true greatness. The only reason the apostles are known to the world today is because of their loyalty to Christ and His Gospel. If it had not been for that they would have been unknown, submerged in the great sea of humanity, just as a rock thrown into the sea is gone forever. Apostles Ordained and Qualified Now what about the ministry of the Twelve? We are told that they were ordained and set apart. The inference in Matthew is that the Savior not only ordained them, or authorized them, but He qualified them?note that?He qualified them to have power over unclean spirits. Over diseases, over those spirits which were troubling the people, and sent them forth authoritatively commissioned to represent Him, the Author of Life. Two great objectives He set clearly before these Twelve. If you will read in Matthew, chapter ? ten, you will find there the instructions given to the Twelve when Christ first sent them out. Specific and General Commissions Now here you will have to study carefully, and it might not be so interesting to you, but you who would like to follow it, I would suggest this: that you will note the first commission Christ gave related to 810 a temporary mission, and that will be covered from the fifth to the fifteenth verses. 'Go not into the way of the Gentiles, and into any city of the Samaritans enter ye not: But go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel." See how he circumscribed them! In effect He said: That is your mission now, only to the lost sheep of the House of Israel, not to the Samaritans who are looked upon with distrust by the Jews because they turned away from the teachings of Judah. No Samaritan was to receive the gospel under the first commission. The second part is found from the sixteenth to twenty-third verses. This relates more to the gospel ministry of that time. Here Jesus refers to some of the principles general in application?one of them is "lose yourself for the good of others." Then the third part from verses twenty-four to forty-two, Christ gave the wider application, anticipating the call that is given to you by Sister Cannon this morning, "Go ye and teach all nations." This was given after His death and after His resurrection. Note the difference. First an immediate mission, second a gospel of general application, and third a universal assignment with a promise. Upon them he placed the responsibility of carrying the gospel to the world. These instructions the Twelve carried out specifically, and at first held strictly to their calling that they must go only to the Jews and not to the Gentiles. First Commission to Proclaim the Gospel After Christ was crucified, Peter and the others carried on the work, and they refrained, even then, from going to the Samaritans or to the Gentiles. You remember that God RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sent to Peter a vision of a sheet that came down from heaven, and on it was forbidden meat. In the vision the angel said: "Rise; Peter, Kill and eat," and he said: "I have not eaten anything that is unclean," and while he had the vision there were knocking at the door two messengers from Cornelius, a leader of 'a. Roman band (not a brass band, as one Sunday School teacher said), ~ a leader of the Centurians?one hundred soldiers. Note that ths came to Peter, who was head of the Twelve, and not to Pau!. Paul was the apostle of the Gentiles, but when the gospel went to the Gentiles it was given through the organized authority of the church. So Peter, guided by the messengers, went into the house of a Gentile, a Roman Centurian, contrary to the Jewish practice. Now that was not easy for a Jew to do, and he sat down and ate with them, and do you know how he became convinced that he was doing right? He perceived that Cornelius had the Holy Ghost as well as he, the one exception in the New Testament where the Hoiy Ghost is given before baptism. Seeing this, Peter said: "Can any one deny baptism to these who have rece: ved the Holy Ghost as well as we." That first commission of Christ's when Peter was chosen, remained with him even up to that day. Then it began to dawn on him, and it dawned on Paul and others, that there was significance in the commission of Christ to them: "Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.... And lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world." That was their ministry?to bear witness to the divinity of the Gcspel of Jesus Christ, to Jews first, then to MINISTRY OF THE EARLY APOSTLES Samaritans and Gentiles and to everyone; and here let me say, sisters, that as sure as you are sitting here contemplating the beautiful things of the Gospel, and your work in the Relief Society, so sure is it that there will be no other plan in this world that will bring peace and happiness to mankind, only through obedience to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. With all my soul I bear you that witness. Special Witnesses of the Resurrection The second duty of the apostles was to bear witness to the reality of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. That seems simple to you and me, because we have accepted it since babyhood, but it is not simple to the world today. Millions reject it. There are professors here in our midst who are implanting in the minds of our boys and girls that the resurrection was not a reality. I know whereof I speak, and so do you mothers know. Today we are discussing the ministry of the Apostles, and one of the chief duties of these Twelve was to bear witness to the reality of Christ's resurrection from the dead. I would like to apply that to Relief Society work a little later. Now just a sentence or two to prove that. Note what Peter said when the eleven met after Judas had killed himself. They had passed through some of the most trying experiences, discouragement and doubt. "Wherefore of these men", said Peter "which have companied with us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, Beginning from the baptism of John, unto that same day that he was taken up from us, must one be ordained to be a witness with us of his resurrection.' "The man whom 811 you choose to take Judas' place must be one who will be a witness with us of the resurrection." There is a commission! There is no theory about it, it is a reality. Shortly after that Peter and John passed a lame man sitting at the temple gate. He had been carried there from babyhood, and day after day from boyhood to manhood had begged alms from those who went into the temple. Holding out his hand he asked Peter and John for alms. Peter answered: "Silver and gold have I none; but such as I have give I thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise 'up and walk." And the man, lame from his mother's womb, so the Bible tells us, sprang to his feet and walked with them into the temple. This was known throughout Jerusalem. For this act, and for preaching "resurrection from the dead," Peter and John were arrested and placed in prison. Next day they were brought before the High Priests, who asked, "By what power, or by what name, have ye done this?' That is one of the most magnificent scenes in all history. Picture Peter and John, prisoners, facing dignified, robe-bedecked, prejudiced judges some of whom perhaps had participated in sending Christ to his death, and-who might not hesitate to sentence, if possible, Peter and John to the same fate. There stood the man healed though he had been lame from birth. The apostles were commanded to tell by what power this miracle had been wrought, and in an atmosphere impregnated with prejudice, Peter boldly declared: "Be it known unto you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth 812 this man stand here before you whole. "This is the stone which was set at naught of you builders, which is become the head of the corner. "Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved. "Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marvelled; and they took knowledge of them, that they had been with Jesus. "And beholding the man which was healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it. "But when they had commanded them to go aside out of the council, they conferred among themselves, "Saying, What shall we do to these men? For that indeed a notable miracle hath been done by them is manifest to all them that dwell in Jerusalem; and we cannot deny it. "But that it spread no further among the people, let us straitly threaten them, that they speak henceforth to no man in this name. "And they called them, and commanded them not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus. "But Peter and John answered and said unto them: Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye. IH "For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard." (Acts 4:10-18). Paul's Testimony I want to bring to your attention another testimony concerning the reality of the Resurrection. It is given by Paul. He, too, was an apostle, though you cannot find that he was ever sustained as one of the council. By the way, there are aposRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tles who are not members of the council. I think there were in that day, at least they were considered to be apostles. In one instance, for example, Paul and Barnabas are referred to as "these apostles". As far as we know Barnabas was never an apostle. The point I am making is that a man may be an apostle but not one of the Council of the Twelve. We have had that in our day. John W. Young was ordained an apostle February 4, 1864, but he was never a member of the Council of the Twelve from that time to the day of his death. Daniel H. Wells was sustained as a counselor to the Twelve Apostles, and I have heard President Grant say no wiser counselor ever lived in this Church or in the United States than Daniel H. Wells. He was not, however, sustained as a member of the quorum, nor as an apostle, but just counselor to the Twelve. Brigham Young, Jr., was ordained as an apostle by his father on February 4, 1864, but he did not become a member of the Council of the Twelve until October 1868, when he was chosen to fill the vaeancy caused by George A. Smith. Today Brother Sylvester Q. Cannon has been ordained an apostle, but is not sustained as a member of the Council of the Twelve. Now, whether Paul was a member or whether he was not, we are not going to say, but he was an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, and a witness of His resurrection. This is what he wrote deliberately to a group of saints known as Corinthians: "For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures; And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures: And that he was seen of Cephas (Peter) then of the twelve; MINISTRY OF THE EARLY APOSTLES after that, he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once; of whom the greater part remain unto this present, but some are fallen asleep. After that, he was seen of James; then of all the apostles. And last of all he was seen of me also, as of one born out of due time. For I am the least of the apostles, that am not meet to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God." Christ's Message Applied Sisters, an apostle's duty as. Commissioned is to be a special witness of the Lord Jesus Christ, to bear witness to His doctrine, of its effect upon mankind. How will a study of such men and their mission apply to you? By applying their teachings in your lives. One of these was to feed the hungry, to clothe the naked, to visit the sick, to comfort those who mourn?to lose yourself for the comfort of others. Do you remember that beautiful lesson when Christ said: "And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left. "Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit' the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: "For I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I 'was a stranger, and ye took me in: "Naked and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. "Then shall the righteous answer 813 him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungered, and fed thee? Or thirsty, and gave thee drink? "When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? Or naked and clothed thee? "Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? "And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." Sisters, what greater comfort can you give to the mother who stands at the side of a little baby dying than the realization that Christ died to bring to mankind the knowledge that death is but the doorway to eternal life. If you feel that in your hearts, I cannot think of any greater comfort. You can make soft the pillow, you can dry the tears, but you comfort the heart when you radiate the testimony that there is no death. Mothers might cry out, as one did to me, "Oh, if I only knew that." Well, it is our duty to know it, and these apostles about whom you are going to study gave their lives in testimony of that great truth. God bless you?you who are going out to comfort the needy, to bless those who are discouraged, to give succor to those who are in distress. God help you that you may know that everlasting truth which Christ gave to these apostles and to the world, that, "In my Father's house are many mansions, I go to prepare a place for you, that where I am ye may be also." I humbly pray that this testimony may be ours.