"Terribly foolish,' Stephen agreed happily, "but terribly sweet," Richard L. Evans By Marba C. Josephson RICHARD L. EVANS' appointment to the First Council of the Seventy at the semi-annual conference, October, 1938, comes as a tribute to his adherence to the principles which his mother, Florence Neslen Evans, implanted in his heart and mind. Without an understanding of the mother who held her family together in love and truth after her husband, John Alldridge Evans, was killed when Richard, the youngest, was only ten weeks old, we cannot fully appreciate the accomplishments of this young man. In his own words when he was called to this position, he bore testimony to her qualities when he said: "Tf I had been of a mind to turn back I should have done it at my mother's knee. I should have done it before she taught me to pay out my first few pennies in tithing. I should have done it before her firm and gentle hand directed my steps into the ways of truth... "My own father died as the result of an accident when I was ten weeks old. My mother reared a family of nine children, all of whom at that time were under eighteen. With a meager and unreliable income, she immediately sent my eldest brother on a mission. Such faith as that, in the home in which I was reared, could produce only one result, and the result is that all of my nine brothers and sisters have come up through the program of the Church to be a credit to my mother and to all that the Church stands for." Further tribute comes to her in a letter which was written by one of her daughters-in-law from which the following excerpts are quoted: "I want you to know how much I have always enjoyed the rich hospitality of your home?a place where young people, frequently from homes of greater luxury, have always loved to congregate. "I appreciate the delicate, respectful consideration you extend to the privacy of your married children's affairs. And thank you, too, for those deep religious principles and convictions which you made so naturally a part of your children's lives. "I thought pleasantly of you and your family recently when a 'modern' woman was telling critically of a mother she knew who had actually paid tithing on her meager income. I imagine your children will outlive this sacrifice. But how irreparable the loss if you had not sacrificed for the molding of their immortal souls. But your children felt that they gave up nothing to pay tithing. They were merely stewards of God's holy tenth when it came into their hands. It belonged to them no more than it did after they had returned it to Him. And they had the strength of being partners with Him in a great and powerful work. "There were thoughts I would like to have made audible to you on the night. Of your golden wedding anniversary? but as usual I didn't say them. I think that the newspaper picture of you and your husband was the only Golden Wedding anniversary picture I ever saw published when one of the two was dead. It seemed to me that there was a particular fitness about it. I think no one ever kept alive in a home more perfectly the spirit of her mate. Your certainty and ever present conscious conviction seems to have grown right into every one of your children; so, again, I have you to thank that such faith touches my life and goes before my children. "From the priceless foundation for a happy home and marriage given through being reared in the radiant glow of your beautiful romance with its never-failing devotion, each child has carried with him a torch of living fire which kindles the hearthstone of each new home." JN this home, Richard L. Evans with his four brothers and five sisters, was taught devotion to the Gospel, a devotion that has borne fruit in continued service to the ? Church, beginning with ward activities as an auxiliary and Priesthood member and continuing as Sunday School teacher, a member of the Y. M. M. I. A. Superintendency, a missionary to Great Britain, and as a  RICHARD L, EVANS member of the General Board of the Y. M. M. I. A. While Elder Evans was on his mission to Great Britain, he was called to serve as associate editor of the Millennial Star under both Dr. James E. Talmage and Dr. John A. Widtsoe. He also served as secretary of the European Mission and as such traveled extensively in Europe from the northernmost countries in the Arctic circle to the southernmost on the Mediterranean Sea. In his home, he was taught industry, an industry which meant he would work at such diverse occupations as newspaper boy, soda fountain RICHARD tain clerk, truck driver, traveling salesman, and surveyor. This industry taught him the value of time and effort, indispensable qualities for those who would achieve. His industry was to be rewarded by his rapid rise from an announcer at KSL radio station to production manager, supervisor of announcers, and director of publicity. He also organized the continuity and production departments of KSL. At the present time he is Director of Special Features and is identified with such notable events as. The speed runs on the Bonneville salt flats, as the introducer of special guests, and as the continuity writer and announcer for the weekly Sunday morning broadcasts of the Tabernacle choir, a program which is listened to eagerly by tens of thousands of coast-to-coast listeners. Into his own home he has carried the same ideals which he learned L. EVANS 821 from his mother. He chose his wife carefully, Alice Thornley, a woman who has the same standards and the same fine purpose which has prompted her husband in his endeavors, whose home life paralleled his. To them have been born two sons, Richard L. Evans, Jr., three and one-half years old, and John Thornley Evans, eight months old. Although Richard L. Evans is young in years, having been born March 23, 1906, he is seasoned in his outlook on life because of his wide and varied experiences; he is trained to cope intelligently with situations, having been graduated from the University of Utah with a Bachelor's degree in English and a Master's degree in Economics; he is able to meet unusual and unforeseen conditions which arise because of his exceptional sense of humor, which combined with his idealism, his realism, makes for real wisdom.