A Thought for the Season
By Anna B. Hart
NOW we are near the glad season when we commemorate the birth of Jesus of Nazareth. The streets and shop windows have taken on a festive air. The windows are fairylands of toys?anticipations keen. But how different are the reactions to Christmas; to one a time of joyous anticipation, to another a time of memories, of heart aches, to one the culmination of a year to another the beginning of life, to one an emphasis of poverty, to another a lavishing of gifts. In spite of all the varied meanings which Christmas holds for us, this is a time of year when our lives touch on a common ground. At Christmas our world of present-day bewilderment becomes unified. As our thoughts turn toward the One whom we are honoring at this season, we are at once impressed by the fulness with which He lived. Many were the experiences He gained in the bustling Galilee of His day. He knew the work of the people and their customs. He knew the shepherds, the tillers of the soil, the wealthy merchants, and the joy-makers at the wedding festival. In the midst of this life of varied activities and service to others, Jesus did not omit cultivating friendships. His friends included people of all classes and all ages. His affection for little children is among the tenderest chapters in the history of our race. The little group of His closest friends represented sufficient variety of background and experience to enable Him to appreciate the problems of life as they appear to people of all groups. Jesus took long hours for intimate conversations even with people little known to him. He was always ready to talk with people about the law, their souls, their troubles, or even their physical ills. It is not strange that many of the teachings of Jesus in those leisurely conversations have come to us as an impressive part of his life's achievement.
CHRIST touched life in varied ways but all his experiences enriched and rounded him for his one ultimate interest?the Kingdom of God. He has given us his gift of eternal principles. He is our master guide who takes us through what would be a life of meaningless bewilderment and brings us to the journey's end in safety. It is by living as He did that we can live abundantly. Christ knew the real values of life, and guided his life toward them. These values to him were not considered in terms of years or even of a lifetime but in relation to eternity. Each deed took its proper place in his life's activities. Perhaps Jesus would not approve of the material goal which many of us set up as an ideal. He would have us round out our lives with more enjoyment of the companionship of our friends and of the reflections which come from a better understanding of ourselves. Few of the experiences that come to us possess adequate form, for we have neither the leisure nor the opportunity to undertake them, or fully to "understand" them when undertaken, much less the desire or the ability to communicate them. Far too much of our lives is spent in purposeless activities which have no real significance for us and which bring no true enjoyment. We spend our lives in routine work interspersed by a hectic chase after fruitless pleasures and a happiness which disintegrates when we touch it. Our way is marked by piecemeal fragments of experiences, experiences which might have been valuable had we allowed them to take their course. How was it that Christ made his life meaningful and significant? He is frequently described as hastening from the multitudes and even from the companionship of his disciples to enjoy the solitude and indulge in the reflection he seems to have loved so much. In quiet contemplation, away from the pressing cares of Galilee, he was able to see life in perspective and gain a clearer vision. And yet it is true that Jesus accomplished more in this leisure than other men have ever done by applying themselves however strenuously to a life filled only with toil.
THE abundant life is in harmony with eternal forces because it is one guided by eternal principles. In the midst of the press of everyday existence, it is difficult to keep clearly before us that which we wish to make of our lives. We all wish to live abundantly, but in our attempt to do so, we often find ourselves rushing frenziedly about, engaging in pursuits which prove to be merely time-wasters, and which bring us no closer to a realization RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of our ultimate aims. Let us pause occasionally in our mad haste and evaluate our activities at their true worth. Christ taught that true greatness consisted in service. He did not serve mankind by giving of money or this world's goods. He devoted much time to hearing and comforting the bodily ills and the mental distresses of all who would place their confidence in him. What prized gifts?these gifts of service! How much more of lasting value do we find in an occasional rare hour of real companionship than in the most expensive (and most useless) gift. Jesus expected no gifts in return?no more than did the wise men and shepherds that first Christmas. The real joy comes from sharing what we have with others. In ancient times it had been taken for granted that the superior should be served by the inferior. Into this world Jesus came?a world where most of the menial tasks were performed by women and slaves. He declared that true greatness consisted in using his greater strength to serve them; that the one who sought a lowly place where he might serve others was the God-like man.
I LIKE to remember that Christ taught women the secret of abundant living nineteen centuries ago. Woman's life is filled with the many activities of the day. Christ recognized her capacity and he also recognized her faith. When necessary he defended her and was always courteous and considerate of her. It was to a woman he spoke these words of immortal significance to which past ages have A THOUGHT FOR THE SEASON listened and future ages will listen: "But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life." (John 4:14.) How the conversation of Jesus and Martha of Bethany at the grave of Lazarus might show that Jesus considered Martha capable of the brightest spiritual illumination when he said: (John 11:25-26) "I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die." Jesus recognized a woman's faith. There was the woman who touched his garment in the crowd, to whom he said, "Thy faith hath made thee whole". (Mark 5:34.) And again he recognized an unusual faith in woman. This time her disease was of the soul for she was a sinner. "Thy faith hath saved thee" (Luke 7:50) indicates that complete moral and spiritual renewing had taken place within her. Our records show Jesus dealing with the poor, the sick, the bereaved, the sinful and the outcast among women, and always thoughtful and courteous toward them all. But was it only when women were in need and he could serve them that he gave them his attention? Jesus was willing not only to minister unto women but to be ministered unto by them. He healed the mother of Peter's wife "and she arose and ministered unto them". (Matthew 8:15.) Again (Luke 8:1-3): "And it came to pass afterward that he went throughout every city, and village preaching, and showing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God. And the twelve were with him; and certain women, which had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities, Mary called Magdalene, out of whom went seven devils, and Joanna the wife of Chuza, Herod's steward, and Susanna, and many others, which ministered unto him of their substance." We must remember that Jesus took with him on his preaching campaigns a company of women as he took a company of men: that having given them health of body and enlightenment of mind he did not hesitate to accept their ministry in material things. He recognized the ability of women to serve the world.
CHRIST gave us more than abundantly lived hours of leisure or contemplation. He doubtless felt the peace that also comes from communion with nature. He observed many overtones of life?the bleat of a lost lamb, a lily in the field, and reeds in the river shaken by the wind. Will there be time this year in the rush of festive preparation for reflection?for acquaintance with our own lives, for companionship of friends and relatives? The voices of the angels were not heard through confusion but in the peaceful hours. May we forswear all enmities and the distinctions that divide, that we may commit ourselves to living abundantly and building up peace on Earth and Good Will among men!
Giver's Gold