The apocryphal gospels assume that the spot of Christ's birth was in the neighborhood of the present sepulchre. Here, about one mile from Bethlehem, the Virgin is said to have been surprised by the birth of her Son, and a cave had to be found. At this place the shepherds and the Magi reputedly discovered the infant. Other varying accounts as to the whereabouts of the ChristChild's birth are in existence and it will be apparent to any critically minded person that the exact spot is unknown. CONTINUING a short distance along the pleasant highway we came to the place where the road to Bethlehem forks off the main road to the left. From this point it is only. Three-quarters of a mile to where the solidly built and closely massed houses of the present city begin to cluster. Bethlehem is built on a ridge which is terraced and planted with olive trees. Just a few years ago the population of the place was under RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ten thousand; the present figures are not at hand. To the Westerner the city is quaint, but not unpleasing in appearance. The population is? or was?chiefly Christian and works the soil in the valley below the city or manufactures trinkets of various kinds for the tourist trade. Dr. Dalman, one of the chief authorities on the city, says, ""The exact spot occupied by the old city has not yet been ascertained. It was without doubt a smaller city than that of today. If we disregarded all traces of the past, we should place it either at the top of the watershed to the west, or on its eastern spur, outside of what is now considered to be old Bethlehem. Our decision in the matter is not without importance in connection with the traditional 'site of the Nativity. In the first case it was far from the old city; in the other case it was at its western end, that is to say, at its most important approach. The present Bethlehem occupies almost the whole of the long ridge which branches off from the summit, and in the south it stretches even beyond it. Its real ancient site, however, lies undoubtedly in the centre, i. E. On the lowest of the three elevations, and extends from west to east 500 metres (about 547 yards) long and half as broad, on a plain about equal in extent to that of ancient Etam and Mizpah. Bethlehem in olden times was, as now, situated not on a spur but on a saddle." We proceeded into the city and made a short stay, after which our cars took us by an old and somewhat unfrequented road to a plain, where Arab shepherds were watching their sheep. It was now dusk and as I descended from the right side of the car and faced the west I was startled by the size of the Evening star.