12 Editorial The Greatest Gift EARLY two thousand years ago in Bethlehem of Judea a stable offered refuge to a mother and her babe. Humble shepherds watching their flocks by night were shaken by the light and the words of the angel, "Fear not for behold I bring you good tidings of great joy.... Glory to God in the highest and on 'earth peace, good will toward men." And wise men came from Chaldea and knelt before the Babe. Thirty-three years intervened between the birth and death of Christ. His life was a continual and uninterrupted life of sacrifice, perfected by a supreme sacrifice on Calvary. It gave to mankind the greatest of all gifts, the promise of eternal life. Yet even as He made the supreme sacrifice "the people stood beholding, and the rulers also with them derided Him.... "And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him and offering him vinegar." Eighteen hundred and five years. After the birth of the babe in Bethlehem another babe was born in Sharon, Windsor County, Vermont, to Lucy Mack Smith, under circumstances and surroundings of the most humble. This babe was destined to be the Prophet of the Last Dispensation, to be an instrument in the hands of God to restore again in all its purity that same Gospel, giving promise of eternal life, for which Christ was sacrificed. Like Christ Joseph Smith's life was short? thirty-nine years. It was one of self-denial and unselfish zeal for the salvation of mankind. Yet his life culminated in a supreme sacrifice at Carthage. A record of the Martyrdom says, "It seems unaccountable that any generation of men could have been so utterly cruel and barbarous to one preaching so pure a doctrine and laboring with such self denial for the good of all mankind." The Christmas season brings to Latter-day Saints a remembrance of the lives of these chosen ones of the Father. It brings an appreciation of the Gospel for which both made the supreme sacrifice in order that men might have the greatest of all gifts. The Gospel is the source of all that is best in the world. It is the influence that turns men to one another with a spirit of love and good will. It is not strange, therefore, that the Christmas season is a season when people forget self, and sacrifice that others may have joy, Music Department A More CULTURAL RADIO By Wade N. Stephens are largely for advertising purposes. Therefore the sponsors of the programs, since they are spending fabulous sums of money in this way, present the type of program that appears to attract the most listeners. But how can they tell who listens? Obviously, only by the number of letters, telegrams and phone calls they receive complimenting or disparaging the programs. Mr. Lennox D. Murdoch, Director of Station Operations at KSL, estimates that less than one out of every thousand listeners writes to the station or sponsor about a program. This means that if thirty letters are received, all complimenting a program, the sponsor thinks that thirty thousand listeners like his presentation. This assumption is often untrue. There may be many among that thirty thousand listeners who would prefer a program of an entirely different type. The desires of these people are not considered, because they are not known by those who make up the programs.
Now, all Singing Mothers must like good music?otherwise they would not be members of our organization. The only way we can increase the amount of good music on the radio is to write to our radio station, condemning the bad and praising the good. If a large number of our Singing Mothers were to write in, saying, "The chant of the auctioneer gets on my nerves, and so does the jazz music that usually accompanies it. Why aren't there more radio programs in this country like the Ford Sunday Evening Hour?" we might be instrumental in raising the standard of radio music throughout the country. Let us do this. Not once, but regularly, every time we hear something of which we particularly approve or disapprove. Keep a little pile of penny postcards on your radio and send several each week, praising a good program or objecting to a bad one. It is little trouble, and over a period of time will raise the cultural value of radio entertainment.
MANY have asked for a reprint of the list of numbers for next April Conference. Here it is: Religious numbers: "Sanctus," (Gounod); "O Morn of Beauty," (Sibelius); "O Bread of Life," (Franck); "The Lord's Prayer," (Gates); "Silent Night," (arranged by Epperson). All these except "Silent Night," have already been sung by the Singing Mothers. We must have two or three new numbers for April, so that we do not repeat so much. One will be taken from the new hymn book soon to be issued by the Relief Society. At the end of the "Sanctus" (Gounod) you will find a short piece called "Benedictus." This will be the second. Another may be announced later. Secular numbers: "Dedication," (Franz); "By the Bend of the River," (Edwards); "Annie Laurie;" "In the Time of Roses," (Reichardt); "Song of May," (Asper).
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
Lesson VI. The Anointing of the Spirit
Helpful References Edwin F. Parry, Joseph Smith's Teachings, pp. 69-81. Pres. Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 72-75, 81 f. James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 702-707, 720. James E. Talmage, The Articles of Faith, pp. 157-170. A. B. Bruce, The Training of the Twelve, Chapter XXX. ("Power From On High.")
The Apostles of Our Lord Had a Very Imperfect Understanding of His Mission?It seems strange to many readers of the Gospels that the ancient Twelve should be so devoid of understanding of the true mission and work of the Christ. This lack of understanding was displayed on many occasions. Witness the Savior's rebuke of Philip. "Am I so long time with you, and dost thou not know me, Philip? He that has seen me has seen the Father: how sayest thou, Show us the Father" (John 14:9). Note the Master's test of the disciples at the feeding of the five thousand. "But he said to them, Do ye give them to eat. And they said, We have no more than five loaves and two fishes; unless we ourselves should go and buy meat for all this people" (Luke 9:13). It seemingly did not occur to the members of the Twelve that the Christ could provide for the wants of the multitude. When the Savior pointed out that he should be put to death and on the third day rise again (Matt. 16:21) there was again marked unbelief and lack of spiritual insight. "And Peter, drawing him to him, began to chide him, saying, Far be it from thee, Lord: this shall never befall thee. But he turned and said to Peter, Begone behind me Satan: thou art a stumbling-block to me, for thy mind is not on the things of God, but those of men" (Matt. 16:22, 23). One of the Syriac versions adds to Matthew 16:22 the words "as though pitying him." As Professor A. T. Robertson says, "That pictures Peter patronizing Jesus. This tone Jesus would not endure from anyone." The incident would seem to reveal the fact that Peter still held to the Pharisaic conception of a political Messiah. The idea of a Messiah who should face the Cross apparently never thoroughly penetrated his mind until after the resurrection. The scattering of the apostles at Christ's crucifixion and the unbelief of some of them in his resurrection sufficiently attests the fact that his work and mission were but faintly understood by them. "Afterwards he manifested himself to the eleven themselves while at table, and upbraided their unbelief and hardheartedness, because they did not believe those who had seen him risen" (Mark 16:14).
A Modern Analogy.?In the course of events leading up to the death of the Prophet Joseph LESSON DEPARTMENT Smith we have a modern case that somewhat parallels the above. As long as the Prophet was present in person with the apostles and other members of the Church it was almost impossible for them to understand that he would have to seal his testimony with his blood. Hints dropped by Joseph Smith that the Lord would not spare his life after a certain time went by unheeded or were misunderstood.
Christ's Mission not Completely Understood by the Twelve Until After His Resurrection?The ancient Twelve realized the true nature of the Savior's mission only after his resurrection. When the apostles received the Holy Ghost there came to them the activating principle of pure intelligence enlightening their souls and testifying that Jesus was the Christ. They were no longer left in doubt as to what the inner meaning of their Master's deepest teachings had been while he was with them in mortality. Things that they had forgotten were moreover brought to their remembrance. We may ask, "Why were not the apostles able at the first to as easily comprehend the principles taught them in the very presence of our Lord as they were later on with the help of the Holy Ghost?" It is quite probable that in the presence of or during the mission of the Christ (a higher authority) the Holy Ghost never operated unless specially directed to do so. For that reason the apostles never received the baptism of spirit necessary to real and thorough conversion until the Day of Pentecost (Acts 2). The Holy Ghost has a special mission to perform in testifying concerning Christ, in teaching, and in general revealing to man's eternal spirit the things of God. As a personage of spirit he can do this with apparently much more efficiency than beings of flesh and bone. For that reason the apostles more easily comprehended their Master's teachings and mission under the influence of the Holy Ghost than they did at first in his very presence. The question may be asked, "Why did not the Savior let the Holy Ghost operate upon the Twelve for the purpose of converting and teaching them completely while he was yet with them?" This is a question that has its difficulties but may be tentatively answered as follows: Had the Twelve received the full quickening influence of the Holy Spirit at the time of baptism, or shortly thereafter, the Savior's purposes in selecting them would have been thwarted. Their complete conversion and absolute knowledge of the high mission of their Master would probably have given them courage to stand with him before the murderous mob that took his life. Such a course would probably have been fatal to most of them. Our Lord needed men of their caliber far too much to permit their lives to be taken at that time. They were needed to direct the activities of the young Church and to be special witnesses of His name in the world. Hence the reason He delayed sending the Holy Ghost to them until after his resurrection.
The Reception of Power From On High?Luke records a command of the risen Christ to the Eleven assembled in Jerusalem. He says, "But do ye tarry in the city, until ye are clothed with power from on high" (Luke 24:49). The same author quotes other words of the Savior to his apostles in a letter to a certain Theophilus as follows: "But ye shall receive power, when the Holy Spirit has come on you; and ye shall be my witnesses both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and Samaria, and to the utmost part of the earth" (Acts 1:8). The Twelve (Matthias had been added in the meantime) did as our Lord requested and waited for the anointing of the Spirit. It came in the course of a few days?with power. "And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all together in one place. And suddenly there came a sound out of heaven, as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting. And there appeared to them tongues as of fire, distributed among them; and it sat upon each of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance" (Acts 2:1-4). This day of Pentecost was one to be long remembered in New Testament times. Thousands were baptized into the Church (Acts 2:41) whose hearts had been touched by the words of the apostles and the mighty power of the Holy Ghost. Other events of the day of Pentecost will be considered in one of the lessons on the apostle Peter. The apostles themselves were literally "born again". From this time forth they were no longer timid and half-converted followers of what some thought was a national messiah, but were "lions of the Lord". The spiritual spark that had been missing in them before was now supplied in the presence of the Holy Ghost. They now realized the responsibility and the necessity of laboring with all their might to carry the Gospel to the ends of the known earth. Where great privilege is extended responsibility follows. Few men of this generation realize the weight of responsibility of the ancient Twelve or realize their tremendous labors.
A Modern Day of Pentecost.?The ancient day of Pentecost has been paralleled in this dispensation by a wonderful display of power from on high. The occasion was the dedication of the Kirtland Temple on March 27, 1836. The Prophet Joseph Smith mentions many spiritual manifestations that took place that day, among them the following: "Brother George A. Smith arose and began to prophesy, when a noise was heard like the sound of a rushing mighty wind, which filled the Temple, and all the congregation simultaneously arose, being moved upon by an invisible power; many began to speak in tongues and prophesy; others saw glorious visions; and I beheld the Temple was filled with angels, which fact I declared to the congregation. The people of the neighborhood came running together (hearing an unusual sound within, and seeing a bright light like a pillar of fire resting upon the Temple), and were astonished at what was taking place" (Hist. of the Church, Vol. II, p. 428). The blessings of the Holy Ghost upon the apostles and other members of the Church were about the same whether in ancient or modern times. Members of the Church in this dispensation can be thankful for their intimate understanding of certain events in the ancient Church which the Holy Spirit gives them.
Questions and Problems (Deal only with as many as time permits.)