Through the clear balmy air of Palestine A VISIT TO BETHLEHEM ON CHRISTMAS EVE it resembled a large incandescent crystal globe. My mind reverted to the words of the Magi as reported by Matthew 2:2: 'Where is the king of the Jews that has been born? For we saw his star in the east country, and came to do him homage." Our situation was truly charming and romantic. The undulating hills of Judah stretched before us in every direction. On our right they appeared in dim relief against the afterglow on the western horizon. Through the clear air came faint cries of the hyena and jackal from the desert, the answering barks of village dogs, the soft tinkling of little bells on nearby sheep, and the plaintive notes from some distant shepherd's pipe?breaking the otherwise solemn stillness of the Palestinian night. The gathering darkness, the clear sky, the presence of the shepherds, combined with the psychological effect of the holiness of the night made a never to be forgotten impression upon our minds. The evening was cool and light topcoats were welcomed. Sprinkled over the plain were the fires of shepherds and visiting pilgrims. HE members of our party were met by some Jewish friends, according to a pre-arranged plan, and we were conducted into a cave underground where hot native bread was being cooked and also a large amount of meat. The smoke at the entrance of the cave almost smothered us, but a little distance back we made ourselves very comfortable. The native Palestinians seemed not to mind the smoke at all. Large flat "loaves" of the bread, about twenty inches in diameter and almost paper-thin were offered to us. Since we were not inexperienced in Palestinian customs each proceeded to tear off a large piece of bread, folded it over portions of beef and goat-meat, and thus made a kind of sandwich. The meat had been well cooked and was very tender. The ride and the cool air had made us hungry, and our repast was not at all unpalatable. After satisfying our hunger we went once more into the open air, gathered in a circle, built a fire and sang carols. Some English friends joined our party and I thoroughly enjoyed the way they sang the old holiday airs. While we were singing, the Arab shepherds ventured closer and closer until we could see their dark eyes gleaming in the firelight. The natives are a very curious lot and like to watch the actions of the queer Americans and Europeans. After singing, we discussed the historical significance of the district. Somewhere not far from here Samuel had prepared the sacrificial meal at which David, the son of Jesse, was anointed king over Israel (1 Sam. 16:13). Then, too, we recalled that somewhere not far away, "the shepherds were in the same country lodging in the open field and keeping night-watches over their flock: and, lo, an angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were afraid with great fear. And the angel said to them, Fear not; for, lo, I bring you good tidings of a great joy which will be to all the people, that there has been born for you today a Savior, who is the Lord Christ, in the town of David." (Luke 2:8-11). There is an old tradition that three shepherds were the favored ones to whom the angel appeared. The traveler, Arculf, in 670 speaks of "the three shepherds who, just in this neighborhood, were surrounded with the glory of the Lord." A certain Petrus Diaconus also makes mention of a large garden, having walls around it, that contained a cave in which there was an altar that was supposed to mark the spot where the angel appeared to the shepherds. Other similar statements have been made, but they can all be classed as mere guesses. No one knows exactly where the shepherds were when the heavenly messenger appeared.
WE were scheduled to visit the famous church of the Nativity at about midnight. The church of the Nativity is jointly owned by the Latin, Greek Orthodox and Armenian Churches whose convents are built contiguous to it. Unfortunately, there has been much bickering between these churches over the use of the venerated edifice. The fighting and quarrels between so-called "Christian" churches in the land called "Holy" is one of the anomalies of our generation. The grim humor of the situation is intensified by the presence of Arab soldiers, Mohammedans, at the "holy" places to keep the good Christians from flying at each other's throats. The church of the Nativity is one of the most ancient in the world. Eusebius, one of the early church historians, makes mention of the fact that the emperor Constantine, or rather his mother Helena, ordered a church built here in the year 326 A. D. The pilgrim of Bordeaux visited it in the year 333. Even before a church was built on the spot, Origen wrote, about the year 248: "Should anyone desire still other proofs for the birth of Jesus in Bethlehem according to Micah's prophecy (5:2) and the history described by the disciples in the Gospels, let him consider that, in harmony with the Gospel story of His Birth, a cave is shown in Bethlehem, where He was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE born, and the manger in the cave where He lay wrapped in swaddling clothes. And this is well known in those parts even by strangers to the Faith, namely that Jesus who is revered and adored by Christians was born in this cave" (As quoted by Dalman). Anciently there may have been several caves in or near Bethlehem, but the fact that the one mentioned by Origen contained a manger has been considered significant. It is probably the very one over which the present church has been erected. Some authorities believe Constantine's basilica underwent considerable remodeling in the days of Justinian (527-565), others believe the original structure still stands. Since the days of Justinian the building has, however, received changes at the hands of different authorities.
I SHALL not weary the reader with a long description of the church service we attended on Christmas Eve. The place was jammed with oriental worshippers and excessively warm. The pomp and ceremony, the monotonous chanting of the priests, the smell of incense and the stale odors that arose from perspiring bodies anciently or recently perfumed, added little to my spiritual fervor. At the midnight hour, bells rang out and the sound of them was transmitted by short wave radio to all parts of the Western world. The clean, cool, sweet air that greeted us as we left the church was like a copious draught of cold spring water to a thirsty man. We all inhaled deeply of the exhilarating Palestinian breeze that played over the plains and hills where the shepherds still kept silent watch over their flocks. Then we went back to Jerusalem.