[Column 1]
THE ELECTION OF A PRESIDENT.
“There is a tide in the affairs of men
Which taken at the flood leads on to fortune.”
	A national election is always interesting
and generally somewhat sensational. Cer-
tainly the last election has been very much
so. The writer recalls the first election
within her recollection, when William
Henry Harrison was elected President of
the United States, though she was a very
little girl; it was what might be termed an
illustrated campaign, or even spectacular, for
such it really was.
	To the children it was exceedingly pictur-
esque. Those who witnessed the street
parades and the pageantries can never for-
get them; log cabins on wheels, imitation
barrels of hard cider and all the parapher-
nalia of scenery that could be improvised to
attract the voters and excite the populace.
	Campaign songs on new subjects were
quite in vogue, and everywhere the refrain
“Tippecanoe and Tyler too” was echoed by
the children as familiarly as “Yankee
Doodle.” There was a bitter tirade against
Van Buren, and we children thought he
must be a monster.
	Such campaigns are more or less demor-
alizing, and nowadays, after half a century
or more of the rapid progress of civilization
of which people boast so much, there ought
not to be such bitterness and strife between
the opposing parties, as there seems to be
whenever a national election is in progress.
	People come to their sober senses after-
wards, but one hears more or less of frauds
and deceptions until the inauguration of the
President takes place, and then politicians
are busy watching party maneuvers.
With vigilant eyes, ever watching the foes,
Who are prowling around them and aiming their
	blows.”
	The campaign in Utah has been an excit-
ing one for other reasons than the two
parties would make it, and women have per-
haps been more active than ever hereto-
fore, there certainly seemed to be much at
stake, that would naturally arouse women,
especially mothers of families to feel it was
time for them to show their colors and to
stand for liberty; and having equal suffrage
why not use it and make it a power for
freedom. There was an incentive to be up
and doing and the women of Utah rose to
the occasion valiantly.
	Even women who are indifferent to the
ballot, and rather careless about voting,
were anxious to exercise their privileges and
to use their influence where it would be

[Column 2]
effective for the best interests of the com-
monwealth. Very little, if any ill-will or
party-feeling was apparent among the
women voters, they were loyal to the heart’s
core.
	In a very pronounced way this election
has been educational politically. Women
who had taken little interest in public affairs
or questions have been reading the litera-
ture distributed and have been enlightened
on national issues. It is as much the duty
of women to comprehend the matters of
government as men, for they are the teach-
ers of men, at least, while they are boys,
not only in the home at the fireside, but
thousands of women in the public schools.
Women who travel nowadays get enlight-
ened on certain subjects when they attempt
to bring home expensive articles from other
countries, and find themselves out of pocket
or involved in litigation.
	However now that civil government is
taught in the schools and studied in wom-
en’s clubs the country over, there is little ex-
cuse for ignorance on matters of grave
importance. The women of at least most
of the states have had suffrage campaigns
that have reached the homes remote from
the great cities and so much literature has
been distributed, that it would seem women
everywhere are posted on the great ques-
tions of the day in both parties. And it is
quite noticeable that women generally are
not as partisan as men are. The great suf-
frage teachers have inculcated in their
teachings the principle of tolerance in this
respect and it has been one of the helpful
influences in the suffrage organizations
throughout the world wherever women are
making efforts for enfranchisement.
	With the wide popularity of Mr. Bryan,
who is really so mnch better known than
Mr. Taft, it is strange that so few votes were
cast for him. That it was really a Repub-
lican victory there is no denying. It cannot
be attributed to the man, as it wculd prob-
ably have been if Theodore Roosevelt had
consented to the clamor of the party lead-
ers and allowed his name to appear for a
third term. Mr. Bryan has certainly proven
himself a generous gentleman in facing the
results of the situation so gracefully and
nobly as he has done; and has won for him-
self the honor and admiration of the people
in meeting his defeat heroically. “A great
man struggling in the arms of fate.”
	Woman suffrage is still a novelty even in
the states where they have voted for years,
and when a national election is on there is
more or less agitation, especially if women
are asking for any privileges. Miss Susan
B. Anthony said many years ago, “men will
be very unwilling to give women places of
emolument or trust,” and her words have
been verified in most instances, except
where the salaries were very small; it is a
pity that it is true; here and there a few
men are generous and broad-minded and
even helpful in the election of women.
Notably in Utah this year one thinks so,
but out of all the women in the state only
two, one in each party, were nominated to
be voted for to fill positions. Of course
men think women should be very grateful
to them if they get anything in the
way of office with a salary attached.
	In the recent election women were very
much in evidence, and were enthusiastic or
quite, as much so as men, if they did not
make as much noise at public gatherings, or
sing campaign songs. However, there are
many subjects in legislative work that

[Column 3]
women could and do understand quite as
well as men, and it is the ardent hope of a
large number of Utah women, that the time
will come ere long, that women may have a
place in public affairs that will give them an
opportunity to help make and enforce laws
that will be for the promotion of the welfare
of all concerned.
	We can, however with all propriety, con-
gratulate ourselves here in Utah on the suc-
cess of the election, and hope and believe
that the future of this dear commonwealth
will be in safe hands, and the best interests
of the people not be jeopardized by schem-
ing and designing men.
	The pioneers who made the country habi- 
table cannot possibly be considered usurp-
ers; they have known what it was to sweat
and toil and face all sorts of dangers and
difficulties, and their sons and daughters
and those who came here to remain, who
believe in justice and equality, should also
help to
	“Uphold the right though fierce the fight,
	And powerful the foe,” etc.


