		PRESS COMMENT.
	The seventeenth annual executive of the
National Council of Women of the United
States is one of the most important meetings
in the History of the Council, as the quin-
quennial of the International Council of
Women is to be held in Toronto, Ontario,
during the month of June, 1909, and at this
meeting delegates will be elected from the
American Council to attend the same. The
International Council of Women is a body
composed of about twenty-two countries of
which the United States is one. We feel

[Column 2]
very proud of the fact as this is the first time
the International Council has met upon this
side of the water.
	The objects and general policy of the Na-
tional Council of Women of the United Sta-
tes may be best understood, perhaps, by
quoting from the constitution adopted at the
organization.
	“We, the women of the United States
sincerely believing that the best good of our
homes and nation will be advanced by our
own greater unity of thought, sympathy and
purpose, and that an organized movement
of women will best conserve the highest
good of the family and the state, do hereby
unite ourselves in a confederation of work-
ers committed to the overthrow of all forms
of ignorance and injusiice, and to the appli-
cation of the Golden Rule to society, custom,
and law.
	“This federation shall be called the Na-
tional Council of Women in the United
States.
	“This Council is organized in the interest
of no one propaganda, and has no power
over the organizations which constitute it,
beyond that of suggestion and sympathy:
therefore, no organization voting to enter
this Council shall thereby render itself liable
to be interfered with in respect to its com-
plete organic unity, independence or manner
of work, or be committed to any principle
or method of any other organization or to
any act or utterance of the Council itself,
beyond compliance with the terms of this
constitution.”
	There are seventeen National and nine Local
Councils affiliated with the National Council
of Women of the United States, representing
over one million and five hundred thousand
women.
	The work of the National Council has
been along many and varied lines, some of
which are divorce reform, equal pay for
equal work, dress, education in citizenship,
domestic science, social peace and interna-
tional arbitration, social purity, and care for
defective and deformed children, equal stand-
ard of morals, tuberculosis, political equality
and art and literature. Each subject is in
charge of a competent standing committee
who will report the progress made at this
executive.


