			DEAD ROSES.
		BY S. E. C. WILLIAMSON.
Roses, ye kissed me with lips that were brighter,
Than these that ye touched ere the yesterday 
	passed,
But now they are colder, and stiller, and whiter,
Than others that trembled awhile in life’s blast.
No matter. They weep not for blossoms that
	wither
Who bear in their bosoms the deep scar of graves
Yet any sad whisper may summon thoughts hither
That mingle our tears with Eternity’s waves.
Is there no summer land where the breath of the
	flowers
Increases in sweetness, forever and aye,
Or pass their faint sighs from this bleak world of
	ours
To thicken its vapors ot passing away?
Is there no summer world where the heart cometh
	nearer
To all that it yearns for and misses in this,
Where beauty and love are intenser and dearer
And wedded forever in widening bliss?

Roses, ye speak not—the death spell is on ye.
Ye breathe not, ye blush not, ye tremble not now;
And though to the touch of my lips I have drawn
	ye
There mute as my own stifled heart-heats ye bow;
But something too sweet to be dust on the mor-
	row
Still lingers about the pale forms that I press,
’Tis something akin both to joy and to sorrow
That clings to my soul with a passion’s caress. 
Only dead roses, yet proud brows have worn them,
With smile jewels hiding the point of each thorn;
And tender true hearts have unflinchingly borne
	them,
And veiled them with laughter to hide them from
	scorn.
Only dead roses! Yet strong spirits tremble
And bow by a breath of their sweetness oppres-
	sed;
And brave honest lips, little used to dissemble.
They hold to a lie of a truth unconfessed.

Only dead roses. Yet, who shall restore them
To summers departed and youth that is passed,
Or bring to the saddest of lives that deplore them
A hope that is sweet as the shadow they cast?
Roses—ah, poor, blighted roses!—yet sweeter
For trial that left ye so faded and changed—
Love passing the grave hath existence completer;
Affections death chastened are never estranged.
I have one changeless trust in the changing FOR-
	EVER,
There must be perfection in God’s work complete;
have dreamed of an isle in the ocean called
	NEVER,
Where the souls of the birds and the blossoms
	shall meet;
I have dreamed of a shore to the soundless
	DEATH RIVER
Where love proves its moral of NEVER IN VAIN;
Where ’tis not the cross, but the crown of the
	giver
And the dead roses gather their incense again.

	Mrs. Hannah T. King also claims a place
among pioneer writers though most of her
published writings were of a later period.
She wrote some poems for the Polysophical
Society and contributed largely to Utah
literature in some fine prose writings; also
the dearly lamented Emily H. Woodmansee
gave in her young womanhood some poems
and writings and our Hymn Book contains
six of her songs—these however are of a late
date.
	There are others too who gave some frag-
ments of song or story to early literature in
Utah, and Utah’s literary fame will spread
throughout the world and the nations will
yet sing her praise.


