[Column 1]
	There were on the stand Stake Counselor
Don B. Colton, one Patriarch, several High
Councilors, and Bishops, Sisters Susan Grant
and Julia P. M. Farnsworth of the General
Board from Salt Lake City, and a good rep-
resentation of Relief Society officers of the
Stake.
	In the absence of President Sarah M.
Colton, Counselor Nancy A. Colton pre-
sided.
	After the opening exercises, Counselor
Nancy A. Colton welcomed the brethren
and sisters, also reported the Stake in good
condition, all the wards had been visited
the last quarter, she also spoke of President
Sarah M. Colton’s illness.
	Lecture by Miss Almeda Perry, entitled
“Cheerfulness.” The lecture was very
ably handled.
	Violin solo by Miss Mabel Hansen, assist-
ed by Miss Hazel Johnson.
	Report from Naples Relief Society by
Mrs. Annie Casper,
	Sister Susan Grant said she felt pleased
to meet the brethren and sisters in such a
beautiful building, had been pleased with
the reports and also the lecture, she spoke at
some length on cheerfulness she testified
of having the privilege of being acquuainted
with the Prophet Joseph Smith and what a
noble being he was, also testified of the
work that he was an instrument in the
hands of the Lord in bringing about.
	A chorus by some little girls from Maeser
led by Mrs. Merrel Colton, entitled “The
Star Spangled Banner.”
	Report by Hannah Odekirk of Vernal
Relief Society. Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth
spoke of the beautiful scenery between here
and Salt Lake City, and what a pleasure
she had in coming to visit us. Spoke of
the lecture on cheerfulness, of wbat the
early settlers had to pass through, referred
to the Mormon Batalion and their sufferings
for the Gospel’s sake. Said Romania B.
Penrose has organized 26 branches of the
Relief Society in the British Mission the
last year. She gave the number of members
as about 35,000, and the number of bushels
of grain as over 170,000.
	Mrs. Annie S. Bartlett felt to add her mite
with the rest of her brethren and sisters
referred to our yearly program. She spoke
on cheerfulness, Word of Wisdom, tithing,
and obedience.
	Cenference adjourned until 2 p. m. after
singing and benediction.
	Afternoon Session.—After the usual open-
ing exercises, sacrament was administered
while the choir sang a hymn. Then Sister
Julia P. M. Farnsworth said Sister Bath-
sheba W. Smith wished to be remembered
to all the sisters, and would like the sisters
to get the spirit of their work. She spoke
of intemperance, and of the evils that exist
from the same, such as homes being broken
up, families being made homeless, through
drink. Spoke of the education nowadays,
compared the privileges of today with those
in former days, talked of the nurse class in
Salt Lake City, said in the last year they
had given 2,000 days nursing the sick for
charitable purposes.
	Essay from Jensen Relief Society by
Lydia Wall, entitled “Social Duties in the
Home,” which was well rendered. Song
from Naples by the Glee Club, composed of
young girls. Mary J. Hards reported Glines
Relief Society. America M. Orser reported
Jensen Relief Society. Phebe Hislop re-
reported Maeser Relief Society in good con-
dition.
	Recitation by Mrs. Jean Merkley. In-

[Column 2]
strumental music from Glines ward by
Hazel Johnson.
	Sister Susan Grant thought every one had
been pleased; she had been very much edi-
fied and pleased for coming: felt to encour-
age the sisters in their Relief Society work;
she enumerated the duties of the Relief So-
ciety sisters and spoke in particular of the
teachers’ duties, referred to Nauvoo, where
the first Relief Society was organized, also to
the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph
Smith and his brother Hyrum, she had the
privilege of seeing them after the martyr-
dom. Told of the early pioneers in Salt
Lake Valley in 1847, and the hardships they
had to pass through.
	Brother Don B. Colton thought all had
been paid for coming to conference, it made
his soul rejoice when he heard brethren and
sisters bear their testimonies that knew the
Prophet Joseph Smith, he bore his testi-
mony that he knew that Joseph Smith was
a prophet of God. Spoke at some length on
prohibition, he gave statistics of the divor-
ces and of children who had been made
homeless through drink.
	Patriarch Nelson Merkley thought we had
had a feast of good things ever since we
entered the house, said he wondered when
Sister Grant entered the Salt Lake valley if
she ever thought she would be called to
visit the different Stakes of Zion. Spoke of
the inconvenience the sisters have in getting
to meeting where they live in such a scat-
tered condition.
	Counselor Nancy A. Colton thanked
all who had helped in our Confer-
ence. Spoke of the young sisters be-
longing to the Relief Society, we should
teach our children that the Relief Society is
the mother of all other woman’s organiza-
tiyns.
	Annual Conference adjourned for one year
after singing and benediction.
