[Column 1]
	MINISTERING CHRISTMAS ANGELS.
		SUSA YOUNG GATES.
	The usual subdued buzz of conversation
in the teacher’s meeting at the Relief Soci-
ety hall; was greatly augmented that day by
the heap of Christmas parcels which quite
hid the placid president of the Society, as
they were piled in various attractive looking
bundles on the table before her. She stood
up to say:
	Sisters, our friends have been very gen-
erous, this holiday season, and a great bless-
ing, for we have seldom had so many poor
and sick among us who need our help. We
will dismiss our meeting early, to permit
you to begin your distributing this after-
noon, and if there is any special case of
want or distress call upon us for nurses
or what may be needed. We will ask the
sisters appointed for this block to take this
money to the widow in the row, for her
medicine and doctor bills.”
	Two white-haired women approached the
table and added the money to their other
parcels.
	A benediction was spoken, then the dozen
women dispersed with cheery salutations,
and the two block sisters took the heavy
basket between them and turned down a
side street. Both were white-haired, slen-
der and small. Both wore quaint and
charming old-style English bonnets upon
their snowy locks with the infinite grace of
English ladies. Both were widows and
both had passed through three score and
ten years.
	Halting at a shabby cottage door, they
entered in response to an invitation from a
childish voice, a small, but comparatively
clean room.
	“Is your mother out today?” inquired
Mrs. Forsberry.
	“Yes, she got a chance to clean some
offices, and she thinks now she can take
care of us all.”
	The cripple child who spoke with the soft
roundness of the South in her tones, lifted
a thin hand to offer greetings to the teach-
ers, while her eyes shone as they deposited
a half dozen parcels on the table.
	“Mother is sure grateful to you for all
your kindness to us all since we came from
Florida. Allie, don’t touch the things. Jim,
you better let those strings alone.”
	But the two half starved children greedily
tore open some of the parcels of goodies de-
signed for Christmas stockings and filled
hands and mouths with raisins, content
with present prosperity and quite willing to
make this serious draft upon future culi-
nary possibilities. The little cripple’s mild
suggestions for proper deportment fell on
hungry, heedless ears. What were Relief
Society “teachers” and “manners” to
yearning cavities in a boy’s anatomy?
	As the two little ladies withdrew, the
elder one said softly:
	“I’ll get my Emma to make a good batch
of bread and take over to those hungry
children. Did you see those scraps of

[Column 2]
heavy, sour bread on their table? It makes
me feel half wicked to see folks so destitute
in this land of plenty.”
	“Most of us work for all we get, dear
friend, and God is over all.”
	With which piece of world-wide spiritual
philosophy, the good souls picked up their
baskets and proceeded on their way,
	It was a weary way they trod. But
they murmured not. They knew they were
only two of six thousand like themselves,
who were facing the storms of winter
that bitter Christmas Eve to bring
comfort to the poor and needy. Now it
was a house filled with the somber clouds of
death and poverty. Again it was aged inval-
dism, united to shiftless youth. Then
sickness claimed the working head of a
struggling household, and the temporary re-
lief was like the broken rift in a leaden sky,
cut by the Bun in his brilliant and hope-
giving path. Next laziness and ill-luck
made havoc with helpless children, but
these must not be forgotten. And every
where the tender ministrations of the two
white-souled human angels brought an at-
mosphere of peace and encouragement.
They chided not, neither did they judge.
They just loved and helped.
	When they peached the widow in the row
of tiny tenement houses built in a lane,
they were very tired. But the look of su-
preme gratitude on the flushed face of the
fever-stricken woman on the scanty bed
brightened the tired faces of the visitors.
When the money was laid in the hand of
the youthful lad who was his mother’s only
help and attendant, there was a pean of
homely gratitude to God and his minister-
ing daughters uttered by both mother and
son, which transported the little old ladies
into that region where only the benevolent
can enter.
	Could you put your hands upon my
head before you go, and ask God to heal
me?” asked the sick woman. “It seems
like you sisters’ prayers would reach heaven
right quick.”
	And the two visitors knelt and prayed
with touching simplicity that those shining
ones who had accompanied them filled the
whole room with their own divine radiance.
	Once more on the sidewalk, both flooded
with the benediction of the grateful peace
they had just quitted in the dingy room of
the row they spoke not for a few moments.
Then,
	“We know in whom we trust,” said the
younger woman. “How good He is to us
all!”
	“Yes,” murmured her companion, “God
is over all!”
	And then they parted, one to go to her
daughter’s noisy mansion, filled with the
confused happiness of children and comfort,
the other to enter the tiny portal of her one-
roomed home, where she dwelt alone with
her own chastened heart and the angels.
And the one whispered to herself as she
entered the plate glass door of her daugh-
ter’s home,
	“How good the Lord is to me. I have my
home in the halls of plenty and peace, sur-
rounded by loving hearts and happy chil-
dren. Surely God is over all!”
	And the other, as she stood on the sag-
ging porch of her home, unfastening the
rude lock of her poor little door, murmured,
	“How good the Lord is to me! I have
the dear quiet of unbroken silence with
which to bathe my tired spirit. And I have
to thank no one for my crust and my bed.
Surely God is over all!”


