[Column 1]		
		NATIONAL OCUNCIL OF WOMEN.
	The National Council of Women will hold
its Seventh Annual Executive Meeting, be-
ginning November 15th, 1908, at Union
City, Indiana; the invitation from the Local
Council of Union City, Indiana, having been
accepted. The business meetings will be
held in the Christian Church, corner of Oak
and Plum Streets. It is expected that a
platform meeting will be held either in the
Opera House or at the Church Sunday after-
noon, when addresses will be give by various
speakers.
	The Branham and Murray Hotels are the
best in the city. Rates have been secured
as follows: Branham Hotel, $2.00 per day;
Hotel Murray, $1.00 per day.
	Arrangements have been made by the
members of the Union City Local Council
to entertain those of the delegates who pre-
fer entertainment in private homes. Please
correspond with Mrs. Mabel R. Keltuer, 623
Pearl Street, Union City, Indiana, in regard
to entertainment in the homes. For enter-
tainment in hotels, correspond direct with
the manager of the hotel.
	In the absence of Mrs. Kate Waller Bar-
rett, Chairman of the Program Committee,
and Mis. M. Josie Nelson, Treasurer, who
has charge of the general arrangements in
Union City, Indiana, the officers of affiliated
societies are requested to confer with Mrs.
Lillian M. Hollister, Correspoding Secretary,
317, Kirby Avenue West, Detroit, Michigan,
at once in regard to their appointees, also
to nominate such speakers as they desire to
have on the program. Suggestions as to
subjects for discussion on the program will
be gladly welcomed. A speedy reply is soli-
cited as the time is limited.
	Each society of National Scope affiliated
with the National Council of Women is en-
titled to two delegates in addition to their
President; State Councils are entitled to one
delegate besides the President; Local Coun-
cils are entitled to Presidents only. The
Chairman of all standing committees or their
proxy are also eligible to attend all sessions
of the Council, with all the privileges of a
delegate, including a vote.
	Each affiliated society is requested to for-
ward immediately to the Corresponding
Secretary, Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister, a com-
plete list of its delegation for the Official
Roster.
	It is desired that we shall have a full re-
presentation from our various societies, as
at this meeting the delegates to the quin-
quennial to be held in Toronto, Ontario,
June, 1909, will be elected. We also expect
to hear the report of the special meeting of
the International Council recently held at
Geneva, which I am sure will be of great
interest to all.
	Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, Pres.;
	Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, Vice-Pres.;
	Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister, Cor. Sec.;
	Mrs. Frances E. Burns, Rec. Sec.;
	Mrs. M. Josie Nelson, Treasurer.

