PORTLAND RELIEF SOCIETY.
	In the latter part of last July Sisters Em
ma Holling, President, and Sadie M. Pratt
and Elsie A. Jorgensen, Counselors, of the
Portland Relief Society tendered their resig-
nations which were accepted by unanimous
vote of the Branch.
	On the 26th of July the Society was reor-
ganized under the direction of the Portland
Branch Presidency as follows: President
Sadie M. Pratt, 1st Counselor Petrine Wes-
tergard, 2nd Counselor Ada Nibley, Secretary
Ida Day, Ass’t Secretary Xemina Holling,
Treasurer Agnes Nibley. These sisters were
unanimously sustained by vote, and they
were set apart the same day for their labors.
	Since the reorganization was affected
there have been ten sisters called to act as
teachers and are doing a work which is
astonishing in its results. The names of
these teachers are: Ida Becker, Elsie A. Jor-
gensen, Millie Hardy, Helen Davenport,
Janie White, Rose Palmer, Amelia Kimball,
Annie Hurl, Hilma Pratt, Annie C. Olsen.
	On the first Monday in every month we
hold an officers and teachers meeting to hear
the reports of teachers, to counsel together
and receive instruction. On the first Thurs-
day in each month we have a testimony
meeting which is preceded by a short lecture
on “Mother’s Work.” On the second Thurs-
day in each month we have a working meet-
ing and on the third Thursday a meeting for
lectures and questions on the Book of Mor-
mon.
	We have an enrollment of members num-
bering 39 with an average attendance of 14,
and our meetings are often very interesting.
There are six subscribers to the “Woman’s
Exponent” among our members, and they
prize the Journal very highly.
	Hoping you and the sisters at the head
will some times remember us and that we
may hear from you occasionally, we sub-
scribe ourselves,
	Sincerely and Respectfully
	Your Sisters in the Cause of Truth,
		SADIE M. PRATT, President,
		IDA DAY, Secretary.


We have received recently news of the
passing away of John W. Hutchinson of
Lynn, Mass., the last survivor of the famous
Hutchinson family of singers, whose voices
were for so many years a power in behalf of
anti-slavery, temperance, woman suffrage
and other reforms; also of the death of Miss
Mary F. Eastman, in past years one of the
most witty, logical and effective speakers in
Massachusetts for woman suffrage.


