	Few comparatively are the names passed
down through the generations that have
achieved great deeds in the world’s drama,
so turning back the page we read of Moses
and the prophets, but the names of those
who helped them in their great works are
long since forgotten. Then we come to the
awakening and the world is illumined by
the birth of Christ, marvelous was the work
of his disciples, men and women that their
names have been handed down through the
centuries to be revered by the children of
men as Saints; and yet it is the Saints, those
whose lives are nothing in the balance
against the work of God who have left their
“foot prints on the sands of time” and
whose praises are sung throughout the ages.
	Since the hour of the transfiguration when
Christ died that man might live, nations
have had their rise and fall and men and
women have played great parts upon the
stage of life.
	The brightest constellation of stars since
that time in all the world’s great history ap-
peared with the dawn of the 19th century.
	The civilized world was shocked and dev-
astated with Napoleon’s great army. Liter-
ature, science, art, religion, all the finer feel-
ings were dormant, commerce and invention
were stagnated, for the wealth, force and
sinew of nations was being applied towards
checking the onward march of that master
General but there was a quickening in the
world’s pulse when Napoleon met his Water-
loo. Out of the darkness came great light.
In the literary world alone were born many
most glorious spirits, Hugo, Eliot, Dickens,
Bancroft. But the brightest star in all this
wondrous constellation, the brightest since
the sorrowful Nazarene, was the spirit of
JOSEPH SMITH THE PROPHET.
	With him came others to help in his won-
drous work, chosen spirits sent by the Mas-
ter to perform the Master’s work and among
those master spirits are those of whom the
Latter-day Saints may be justly proud today
for their fine literary genius and attainments.
	It has been remarked that Utah has made
much greater advance in music and in art
than she has in literature, that from a world-
ly standpoint in fact she had made no pro-
gress at all, her writers had made no fame
outside her boundaries, while her musicians
and painters were widely known.
	If this be true, as perhaps it is in part, it
is due to the fact that the literature of Utah
is largely of a religious nature and a prejudic-
ed world is reluctant to give merit even where
merit is due. Sublime themes in painting
and music are inspiring and pleasing to the
eye and ear without particularly appealing
to one’s reasoning powers, while the same
subjects dealt with in a literary way call
forth the reasoning and argumentative pow-
ers of the mind and are less apt to receive
favor. A picture is accepted by the critics
not for the sermon that it preaches or the

[Column 2]
story that it tells but for its beauty in shad-
ing and coloring, its perfect perspective, its
symmetry and lines. A musical composition
not so much for its theme but such arrange-
ment of sound as to produce the most tell-
ing and harmonious effects; but a poem or
a story or writings of any kind must have
besides the genius of inspiration and the
learned acquirement of composition the art
to appeal to the sympathy and reason of the
human mind, before it ranks among the
classics. That Utah has now and has al-
ways had such works I do maintain whether
the world’s critics received them as such or
not. The writings of the Utah authors should
justly claim a first place in the ranks for
erudition, composition, inspiration and sen-
timent.
	True in the field of literature known as
Fiction Utah can make little claim to excel-
lence and yet in all the world’s history there
can scarcely be found a people, whose tradi-
tions, experiences and sentiment so abound
in those attributes and acquirements which
are necessary for the making of a successful
novel. A people taught, however, almost
from the beginning to refrain from reading
that class of literature are not very likely to
study the art of composing it and what few
attempts have been made have been confined
largely to the short story telling for maga-
zines and newspapers by some of our later
writers with probably the exception of the
dramas and stories of Edward W. Tullidge
and that rather striking story of Corianton
from the Book of Mormon by Brigham H.
Roberts and some religious novels by Nephi
Anderson.
	The class of literature embracing treatises,
essays, letters, history, journalism, and
poetry, has always existed with the people
of Utah and is of the highest and best order.
	In the building of an empire where all the
strength and ability of every man, woman
and child, had to be spent towards the mak-
ing of homes, little time could be given to-
wards the cultivation of the talents in the
higher refinements, and yet from the founda-
tion of the Church the Latter-day Saints
have been a studious reading people and the
record of the Church itself is a literary dra-
ma.
	“Seek ye out of the best books words of
wisdom, seek learning even by study and by
faith” is a commandment given through the
Prophet Joseph Smith to his people, and so
seeking and learning by study and by faith
out of the best books the people of this
commonwealth have ever had before them
the highest ideals of literary work.
	Carlyle says—“The writer of a book, is not
he a preacher, preaching not to this parish
or that, on this day or that but to all men,
in all times and places. * * * * Men
of letters are a perpetual priesthood from
age to age teaching all men that a God is
still present in their life. * * * * The
true literary man is the light of the world,
the world’s priest; guiding it like a sacred
pillar of fire in its dark pilgrimage through
the waste of time.” From the time when
the boy prophet brought forth from the Hill
Cumorah and gave to the world, that great-
est and most powerful of books—the Book


