EDITORIAL NOTES.
	There are so many important happenings
in the world today, that it seems very es-
sential we should have means sufficient to
admit of publishing our little paper more
regular, and it is necessary in order to do
this to secure more subscribers and that
they should pay down. We are now offer-
ing an inducement that we hope may be
successful in this regard. It is the picture
of Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, which is declared by those
who knew her intimately to be a very good
likeness, offered to any new subscriber and
to any of those now taking the paper who
will pay up and prepay for one year ahead.
Also any of those who have discontinued
the paper if they will renew subscription.
To all agents everywhere the same terms
as formerly, including the picture, and we
feel the Woman’s Exponent, that has done
so much for the women of the Latter-day
Saints is deserving of their continued pat-
ronage. In the Relief Society, in all the
wards and stakes of Zion it is indispens-
able.

	The Eglishwoman’s Review has now
been published half a century, and its edi-
tor says in the October number of this year
that
	“Any chronicle of the history of the
‘Review’ would be equivalent to writing that
of the whole woman’s movement, of which
it is itself the principal register.	*	*	*
Or the whole story of the Parliamentary
vote for women on the like terms as it is
granted to men. Each of these would fill
many volumes, and the volumes have been
written in plenty, but one may certainly say
that all through the rise and progress of the
various movements, the Englishwoman’s
Review has been the one contemporary and
living chronicle of their history in the mak-
ing of its “Annual Register,” in fact as the
work of Edmund Burke was the political
history of his day. It bears, we may say,
the same relation to the woman’s movement
that medieval work as the Anglo Saxon
Chronicle, Matthew’s Paris, William of
Worcester and Gregory have to the events of
their own time, and is worthy to be serious-
ly regard in times to come as the firsthand
and practically original source of informa-
tion on its special subjects.”


This is only an extract from the leading
article in the October number of the present
year. What the editor of the “Review” has
said of that paper we can truthfully affirm
regarding the Woman’s Exponent as a
chronicle of the woman’s movement along
many lines in the west. Therefore we
earnestly beseech the women of our people
to use their best efforts to maintain their
own paper.


And the divine ministering Christmas
angels softly breathed upon the aged brows
of both toiling human angels, for God was
indeed over them all!”


