TWENTY NINTH ANNIVERSARY.
	It is seldom in the history of a woman’s
organization that the same officers all re-
main in so many years.
	The minutes of the meeting of the 29th
anniversary of the 12th ward Relief Society
held July 14, 1908. President Julia Druce
presiding. Commenced by singing “Guide
Us Oh Thou Great Jehovah.” Prayer by
Bishop F. B. Platt. Singing “Oh Ye Moun-
tains High.”
	Minutes of last annual meeting read and
approved. Counselor Jemima Midgley gave
an address of welcome to all present. Miss
Doret Evans gave a piano selection. Miss
Clare Williams sang a song entitled “Oh
Love Divine.” Mrs. Margaret Romney gave
a brief account of her trip to Honolulu.
Mrs. Ethel Druce Leaver sang a boIo. Mrs.
Emma Derrick gave an interesting reading.
The 12th ward quartette gave a selection.
Miss Winnefred Tibbetts gave a select read-
ing.
	An address on Relief Society work was
given by Mrs. Annie K. Hardy also she read
the minutes of the meeting of the organiza-
tion of the Society 29 years ago when the
present officers were appointed and they
have served ever since.
	Miss Elma Young then sang a song and
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith addressed the
meeting said she was present at the meeting
when Joseph Smith the Prophet organized
the first Relief Society, March 17, 1842. She
knew that he was inspired of God; she urged
the young sisters to join this society; knew
the sisters were blessed in doing their duty.
She enjoyed working in the Temple, she
spent the greater part, of her time in the
Temple, she also enjoyed Relief Society work.
	Mrs. Xenia Druce Schroder gave a piano
selection.
	Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells addressed the
sisters; told of the benefits and blessings
derived rrom the Relief Society work and the
magnificent work in the Temples; explained
the wide field of effort and endeavor for all
wonaen in modern times.
	President Richard Young, Doctor Sey-
mour B. Young, Ex-Bishop H. B. Clawson,
Ex-Bishop T. A. Williams, each spoke en-
couraging words to the sisters and applauded
their good works in the past and the promis-
ing prospects for future labors.
	An announcement was made of the Relief
Society excursion to Wandamere the day to
be the 21st of July, 1908. Closing hymn
Doxology. Benediction, Brother Joshua
Midgley.
	Supper was served at 6:30 p. m. to all
present and a most delightful occasion it
was.
			AMELIA WARDROP,
						Secretary.


“The Pioneer Mother.” Mrs. Irving Moul-
ton presided recently at a meeting in San
Francisco, called by Mrs. Philip Verrill
Mighels, to consider the erection of a statue
to the pioneer mother, not only of California,
but of all lands.
	Miss Margaret Smith, B.A., is a candidate
for the City Council of Birmingham, Eng-
land. Women were made eligible last year.


