[Column 1]
dear little paper—The Woman’s Exponent
—the first woman’s periodical west of the
Mississippi River.
	Its present editor Emmeline B. Wells also
claims a place among the pioneer writers of
Utah having written some fragments in the
early days for certain occasions. Her first
contribution, when quite a girl, written in
1844 and published in the Millennial Star
called “Friendship” is very touching and in
the early fifties she wrote a poem called An
Ode to Deseret in which she very beautifully
describes the wind on the desert.
	The most prominent woman in early Mor-
mon literature, however, is Eliza Roxey Snow.
She was born in Massachusetts in 1804, and
had a good literary and domestic education.
Descended from good old revolutionary an-
cestors she possessed in her character those
strong and abiding principles which mark
the saint. Even as Joan of Arc, that sweet
maid of Orleans, felt her divine calling and
accomplished her work even to her martyr-
dom and never quailed even when placed
over the burning fagots but died a true Saint,
so Eliza R. Snow from the moment of her
baptism into the new and everlasting faith
was born anew and marched through perse-
cution, poverty, sickness and heart rending
scenes to her destiny. No words so truly and
fully tell her faith in this great work as she
herself tells in the following words:

My heart is fixed I know in whom I trust
The proclamation sounded in my ear
it reached my heart—I listened to the sound
Counted the cost and laid my earthly all
Upon the altar, and with purpose fixed
Unalterably, while the spirit of Elijah’s God with-
	in my bosom reigns
Embraced the Everlasting Covenant,
And am determined now to be a Saint
And numbered with the tried and faithful ones
Whose race is measured with their life, whose joy
Is everlasting and whose happiness
Is God’s approval, and to whom ’tis more
Than meat and drink to do his righteousness.

	Before joining the Latter-day Saints Eliza
R. Snow gained some literary fame through
writing a prize story for a popular magazine.
	She was the first secretary of the Woman’s
Relief Society and prepared and preserved
the records of that organization containing
the instructions of the Prophet Joseph
Smith to the Women of Zion. She wrote
many newspaper articles and essays, also
the biography of her brother, Lorenzo Snow,
and she also wrote and published that very
interesting book of travel called The Pales-
tine Tourists. She wrote two volumes of
poetry mostly of the heroic style but the one
beautiful poem which alone would immor-
talize her name among her people is the
great doctrinal hymn called “Oh my Father”
so loved by all the Latter-day Saints.
	Perhaps the saddest, sweetest poetess we
can claim is Miss Sarah E. Carmichael. She
came to Utah when a little girl with her par-
ents from New York where she was born and
even as a school girl wrote beautiful verses,
in fact in her early life she wrote some of the
best, and most beautiful of her poems and
always proved the genius of a true poet. She
perhaps alone is the one Utah writer the
world has so far recognized.
	A little volume of her beautiful thoughts
was, published by some of her friends for
private distribution and a copy of the same
is now very rarely seen and held very pre-
cious by those who are fortunate enough to
own one. She was always a dreamer and her
last days were clouded, as Byron says “As
by a sickness of a soul.” While her poem
The Stolen Sunbeam was the one selected
by William Cullen Bryant for his collection

[Column 2]
of American poetry, some writers deem the
following poem called Dead Roses, to have
been the most beautiful. It is not in the
little volume but has been culled from some
paper in which it was printed at the time of
her death.

