[Column 1]
of Mormon,—the Latter-day Saint people
have been building a literature better in ori-
ginality and inspiration of thought, than any
other people. What had we, when sixty-one
years ago, our fathers and mothers entered
this valley, in a literary way? Principally per-
sonal diaries and a Hymn Book. Oh, what
a Hymn Book! It contains some of the
grandest themes, words most prophetic, doc-
trines most profound, mingled with a senti-
ment so sweet, so pure, so full of faith and
hope all in perfect rhyme and rhythm as can
not be found between the covers of any other
song book in the world.
	It has always been the custom of the Latter-
day Saints as soon as they became settled
in a town capacity to establish a newspaper
and in less than three years after reaching
these valleys, the Deseret News was estab-
lished, a weekly periodical with Willard
Richards as editor. Through its columns
those who had literary talents were invited
to express themselves; it has always been the
organ of the Church and soon became a
daily paper. It had for editors, always, men
of literary ability and renown among the
people and has ever held a high place in the
ranks of journalism as an organ of good, up-
right principles.
	Of books the pioneers possessed but few
having to use the space in their conveyances
for the necessaries of life; what few these
were, however, were of the choicest, but
what matter, so long as among the people
if there were not books there were men and
women who were the makers of books.
	Early in the fifties a literary society called
the Polysophical Society was organized by
Lorenzo Snow. The meetings were held
twice a week and were much enjoyed. The
object of the association was the cultivation
of the mind and manners in a social and
literary way. Is it not remarkable that in
a western desert, among a poor and driven
people should originate and thrive a literary
association of which the favored east, even
Boston herself, with her culture and refine-
ment might be proud to day? Also so far as
present research can show it was the first
literary club in the United States. Among
the members may be mentioned the founder
—Lorenzo Snow and his gifted sister Eliza
R. Snow, Brigham Young, the poets Henry
W. Naisbitt, W. G. Mills, John Lyon, W. W.
Phelps, Hannah T. King and Hannah Cor-
naby.
	Probably the pioneer writer deserving first
mention is the author of that wonderful mis-
sionary work—“The Voice of Warning”—
Parley P. Pratt. A young literary man in
speaking of Parley P. Pratt says—“In prose
we have only had his equal in his brother
Orson. These two men, have written, I be-
lieve, all the philosophy on which Mormon
literature is founded.” Parley P. Pratt lived
scarce fifty years but in that short period of
time he performed a work so magnificent as
a missionary, a legislator, a journalist, a
writer, and a man of God as to leave his
name among the immortals. “The Voice of
Warning” was first published in 1838, has
passed through numerous editions, been
translated in almost every modern language
and is still doing its great work among the
people and the nations though its author has
long since passed away.
	The Key to Theology, another of our
standard church works, has been a great help
to the missionary, a guide to the teacher and
student of religious literature and an inspi-
ration to the expounder of our faith. In
1840, Parley P. Pratt brought out the first
number of the first volume of that glorious

[Column 2]
little periodical The Millennial Star, in the
city of Manchester, England, on the cover of
which appeared the beautiful hymn “The
morning breaks, the shadows flee,” written
by him expressly for that purpose and oc-
casion and which has ever since been the
first hymn in the Latter-day Saints Hymn
Book. Besides the numerous newspaper ar-
ticles and letters written by him, Parley P.
Pratt wrote forty-six of the choicest hymns
sung by the Latter-day Saints. On his fif-
tieth birthday while on a mission in the east
and just a month before his death, he wrote
a poem called “My Fiftieth Year” which in
a most concise and musical way tells some-
thing of his life and work. One verse reads
like this:

I have wandered far, I have wandered wide,
From Maine to the wild Missouri’s tide;
And over the Atlantic’s sea girt isles
Full many a weary thousand miles.
I have trampled the desert’s burning sands
And the snow-clad mountains of unknown lands.
Mid the crystal waters of Deseret
I have pulled the oar and cast the net;
I have climbed the steeps with the golden ore,
And roamed o’er the lone Pacific shore;
I have ploughed its bosom many a day
To visit the nations far away;
I have stood on Chili’s distant shore,
Where the Polar star is seen no more;
I have gazed on the Andes heights of snow
And roamed mid the flowery plains below.
I have toiled with the great in freedom’s cause,
And assisted to give a state its laws.
I have lain in a dungeon bound in chains
And been honored in courts where justice reigns
In a thousand joys and a thousand fears
I have struggled on through my fifty years.

	This poem, probably the last he ever
wrote, was like the summing up of his life’s
work and in it he expresses a weariness of
travel and a desire to rest in his home with
his dear ones. For him the span of life was
short but his work will extend forever.
	Orson Pratt like his brother was one of the
first apostles of the Church. Both were col-
lege men and both came from old Puritan
stock. They accepted the gospel in its ful-
ness and were ardent and faithful laborers
in the Church. The literary work of Orson
Pratt is more of a scientific nature and his
sermons alone would make a volume of pro-
found thought. In 1852, Orson Pratt pub-
lished a periodical in the city of Washing-
ton called “The Seer,” the two volumes of
which contain articles on the priesthood
and other doctrinal subjects. Perhaps the
most widely read of his works is The Key to
the Universe a book which learned scientists
have marveled could be produced in his
time, for it reveals things which have in
later years by the use of new improved sci-
entific instruments been discovered by the
most learned men. In 1848 he edited the
Millennial Star and was always writing and
studying and gaining knowledge for the
benefit of his people. A collection of tracts
for missionary work called Orson Pratt’s
Works is a notable volume among our
Church works. A rather unique work of
Orson Pratt’s was the transcribing and pub-
lishing of the Book of Mormon in Phonetic
characters, called the Deseret Alphabet.
Brother Orson Pratt was a man of humble
demeanor and rather inclined to diffidence
in social affairs, childlike simplicity of man-
ner but a most wonderful mind and a voice
so resonant and rich that thousands still re-
member his powerful and logical sermons
delivered in the great Tabernacle. His writ-
ings appeal more to the student than the or-
dinary reader. Orson Pratt with Erastus
Snow were the first of the pioneers to enter
this valley, riding down on the 23rd of July,
and looking over the land for the purpose of

[Column 3]
selecting a good camping place for the peo-
ple. A pioneer, a traveler, a preacher, a
scientist, a man of letters and one of the
kindest and noblest of men, such was Orson
Pratt.
	Among the choice literature of the Church
is a little volume entitled Spencer’s Letters.
It is a collection of letters explaining the
faith and doctrines of the Latter-day Saints
written by Orson Spencer to a Mr. Wil-
liam Crowel, a minister in the Baptist
church.
	Orson Spencer was a learned man, a col-
lege graduate and was himself educated for
the ministry, also the law, but having accept-
ed the gospel he gave up the prospects of the
brilliant career that seemed to await him
and laid his destiny with the Saints of God.
He died in the service of the Church while
on a mission to the States. Had he been
permitted to live longer doubtless our liter-
ature would have been much enriched from
his facile pen. He was the first chancellor
of the University of Utah and active in all
educational work among the people.
	John Taylor—apostle, poet, prophet—
throughout his long life in the Church con-
tributed largely to church literature. His let-
ters, sermons, epistles, and poems speak of
his devotion to principle, his fearlessness,
his loyalty to his people, his religion, and
his friends. The Hymn Book contains three
of his hymns, the most notable of which is
that inspiring poem The Seer, which always
calls forth the heart’s great love for Joseph
from the people in response to the telling of
his own love for him. John Taylor wrote a
very beautiful response to the poem by Par-
ley P. Pratt before quoted, on Friendship and
many other verses on the same subject to
loved friends, He edited and founded the
little periodical called the Mormon in New
York city, also founded and published in
Paris, France, a periodical called Zion’s Pa-
nier, Zion’s Banner, and made the first trans-
lation into the French and the German lang-
uages of the Book of Mormon.
	Speaking of John Taylor’s book entitled
The Government of God, Hubert H. Ban-
croft, the historian, says: “As a dissertation
on an abstract and general subject it prob-
ably has not its equal in point of ability
within the range of Mormon Literature.”
John Taylor also edited the “Nauvoo Neigh-
bor” afterwards called The Times and Sea-
sons in Nauvoo, and ever held a high place
among the literati of the Latter-day Saints.
	Of the songs written in our Hymn Book
second only to Parley P. Pratt in number,
and to no one in excellence are those
from the pen of W. W. Phelps. The most
beautiful, the most inspiring songs of
Zion are from the pen of that gifted man.
Thirty-five in number, “Redeemer of Israel”,
“Awake oh ye people,” “Come all ye sons
of Zion,” “The spirit of God like a fire is
burning,” “Earth with her ten thousand
flowers,” “Glorious things are sung of Zion”;
“Let us pray, gladly pray,” and “Praise to
the man who communed with Jehovah” and
many others fill our hearts and souls with
all the love and fervor and fire that a true poet
can call forth. Some of them are perfect epics
and he surely possessed the “divine fire.”
William G. Mills contributed two of our very
best hymns, “Arise, oh glorious Zion” and
“We’ll sing the songs of Zion.” John Lyon
wrote three well known hymns, John Jaques
five, M. A. Morton five, William Clayton two,
Edward W. Sloan five, and Charles W. Pen-
rose eight. Edward W. Sloan was also the
founder and first editor of The Salt Lake
Herald and assisted in the founding of that


