The Dawn of Hope For Saint and Sinner in the Life to Come
By J. H. Paul
1. "Are there Few That Be Saved?"
SUPPOSE we undertake to answer this question: "What doctrine is it, that more than any other has awakened the minds and quickened the hearts of men with a new confidence in this life and in the life to come?"
My answer would be those revelations through Joseph Smith which indicate the final salvation of practically all, and possibly all, of the human race.
When Parley P. Pratt, as he viewed the heights and depths, the truth and beauty, of the doctrines that restored confidence and faith to a world floundering in the gloom of the religions of despair, wrote in a sort of ecstasy, "The morning breaks, the shadows flee," he must have been contrasting with this glorious truth the representations of "orthodox" creeds: the lake of fire, the worm that never dies, the condemnation of heathens, unbelievers, and infants, and the endless tortures of the so-called lost souls.
Infinite Love and Boundless Mercy
THE restored Gospel had shown him that the Hebrew seers, the Son of the Most High, and the truths revealed to Joseph, in our day, unite in portraying, not a picture of endless future woe but one of infinite love and future joy. In expressions that, as the skeptic Huxley remarked, "are as tender and consoling to our human weakness and insignificance as a mother's embrace, but sublime also as the starry heavens and majestic as the onward sweep of ages," they proclaim to doubtful, fearing, misled mortals, "The eternal God is thy refuge, and underneath are the everlasting arms."
This was the voice of revelation a hundred lifetimes ago?a light that re-dawned upon the minds of men. When Joseph Smith explained that we are at school on earth, that we shall be at home in heaven; that we left our Father's courts on high for an experience in this intermediate school; and that, if we now faithfully keep our second estate, we shall quickly, as even the sinners shall finally, graduate into that higher school, that more perfect society of the future life, where the many mansions be.
We shall each be placed in that "mansion" which we have fitted ourselves to occupy?the one that will be best adapted for our reformation, growth, development, and transformation. We shall, in the words of Tennyson,
Rejoin the lost, the loved of earth, And greet each kindred breast, Where the wicked cease from troubling, And the weary are at rest.
The Foundation of Hope
THIS is most striking and useful of recent contributions to the thoughts and aspirations of mankind?that in all the years to be, and throughout the very eternities to come, the fathers of men cannot be complete without their children, nor the children without their fathers; and, still more wonderful, that
 
the felicity of the heavenly hosts?yea, and that of the Most High himself?depends in part upon the return of the prodigals who have wandered far from their Father's house, which is, indeed, their own home and heaven. Is Jesus our everlasting enemy? Or our all-wise, eternal friend? What shall our answer be?
Ideas But Recently Held
THAT the powers and personages of heaven are the enemies rather than the friends of the human race; that only a few, the elect, will be chosen for the better life of the world to come; and that the vast majority of mankind are doomed to a future of endless suffering, from which no deliverance can ever come?these ideas, a brief century ago, were leading doctrines of standard Christian theology. How such doctrines arose, and why they gained and maintained for ages so firm a hold upon the faith of the Christian world, was due to the very simple circumstance that these doctrines had apparently been taught by Christ and the apostles. As facts divinely revealed, these ideas were held to be beyond controversy. And certain scriptures, when taken by themselves, undoubtedly suggest that in the future world the fate of the great bulk of mankind?literally myriads of the human race?will be one of never ending sin and of eternal suffering.
"Fear Not, Little Flock"
IT was the teaching of Jesus that only a few should be found ready at his coming; and it is an obvious historical fact that comparatively few accepted his doctrines while he taught them on the earth. These were matters that greatly perplexed his disciples; and notwithstanding
 
his reassuring words to them?"Fear not, little flock; for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom" (Luke 12:32)?they still hesitated to believe that the great majority of people were wrong and that only a few were right. "Then said one unto him, Lord, are there few that be saved? And he said unto them, Strive to enter in at the strait gate; for many, I say unto you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be able." (Luke 13:23-24.) "For wide is the gate and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat; because strait is the gate and narrow is the way that leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it" (Matt. 7:13-14.) Nothing, men argued, could be clearer than these scriptures, which plainly teach (do they not?) that those who are to be saved are few indeed.
The Few That Hearken
AND all among the few who are summoned "out of darkness into his marvelous light" * * * "not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called"; for "God hath chosen the weak things of the world" (I Cor. 1:26-27) to do his work?"a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people" (I Peter 2:9).
The truths of the spirit are usually hidden from the "wise and the prudent" and revealed unto the low and the humble?"the babes and sucklings." As in many other realms of truth, to be right and to be popular are different and often opposed things. Only the pure in heart, the poor in spirit, the meek, the merciful, the peacemakers, and especially "they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake," shall inherit the
THE DAWN OF HOPE 277
earth at last and shall enter the kingdom." All this, as every student knows, the New Testament plainly declares. The uniform declaration of holy writ is that believers are to be few in number, "the salt of the earth," the "light of the world," known before men by one distinctive mark?by their good works (Matt. 5:1-20). As to the great bulk of mankind, those who did not receive and those who merely professed to receive the gospel of light, they were to be found, at the time of Christ's second coming, in a state of spiritual darkness and unbelief. The churches themselves were to be in the last stages of apostasy, the "man of sin" revealed, and the anti-Christ himself was to be found exalted when the Lord should come again. "Nevertheless, shall the Son of Man, when he cometh, find faith on earth?" (See Matt. 24; Luke 18:8; I Tim. 4:1; II Tim. 3-4; II Peter 3; II Thess. 2, and many other passages).
The Many That Must Yet Hear
NOT alone was it easy and natural, it was almost inevitable, from the general tenor of scripture, to conclude that the gospel is for only a few, "the very elect," of whom also it was spoken that even they should "barely be saved." The more intensely men of learning, without the guidance of revelation and inspiration, studied and meditated scripture, the more they became convinced that only a few could be chosen for eternal life. Students of theology were triumphant in asking: Does it not follow, then, from all the scriptures, that only a few shall be saved? While practically the whole universe of souls shall be lost or condemned? "Not at all," answers the modern Prophet. But why not? "Because we trust in the living God, who is the Savior of all men" (I Tim. 4:10). "For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved" (John 3:16-17). "Who will have all men to be saved * * * who gave himself a ransom for all" (I Tim. 2:4-6).
TWO thousand years have passed since these words of grace and mercy were spoken by servants of the Most High; in all that time only a few, compared with the total population of the earth, have hearkened to the teaching of their Lord and Savior Jesus Christ; and without question, even in our own day, the great majority of mankind have not so much as heard of his doctrines. What shall we say of the vast and uncounted hosts of men, the untold thousands of millions, who lived and died before Christ came? Are they lost? The descendants of Israel alone were to become as numerous as the sands of the sea; and the few of them who ever heard of the Master, for the most part rejected him.
The Cultured Greeks? The Noble Romans
SHALL the final estate of the millions of people in the populous empires of antiquity, and especially the Greeks, with their marvelous works and culture be one of condemnation? Grecian glory, Ruskin claims, is destined to survive long after the civilizations of Western Europe shall have crumbled to dust and been forgotten. What shall be the eternal estate of these truth seeking and artistic generations of mankind, who lived and died before the meridian of time, and hence had no opportunity to hear the truth for which so many of them longed?
 
Plato would have rejoiced to see Christ's day. At the conclusion of his inquiries into the basis and nature of moral truth and religious certainty, he said in a sort of despair, "We must wait till some one comes who can tell us the truth." Shall Plato and others without number, resembling him in their desire to know what they should do to be saved, be forever denied the privilege of hearing and believing on him for whom they hoped and waited?
Later, among the heroic Romans, consider such men as the noble Brutus. "His life was gentle, and the elements so mixed in him that nature might stand up and say to all the world, 'This was a man.'" Can any one, using his own powers of reasoning, maintain that the upright and divine soul of such a man will be eternally lost, simply because, through no fault of his own, he never heard of the gospel of peace?
Other Great Peoples
A FAVORITE diversion of the writer during a missionary period in Great Britain, was to ask the congregations that would stop to hear us on the streets and elsewhere questions like this: What think you shall be the portion, in the eternities to come, of the high-minded and courageous queen of these islands?Boadicea, who roused the retreating Celts and gathered her sons and warriors about her to resist the Roman invaders who everywhere "made a solitude and called it peace"?can you believe theologians who tell you that she and her noble comrades in arms are doomed to suffer forever the torments and punishments of the condemned, simply because she and they happened to be born and to live in a country to which the full light of truth had not as yet come? Deep in your hearts, you believe it not; for it really means that the great Eternal Father and the Son whom he sent into the world that the world through him might be saved, is not your eternal friend but your eternal enemy?a thought impossible to be true, since it is contrary to all that has been revealed of their nature and perfections.
Beautiful to look upon, beautiful to live with, she radiated goodness, purity, gladness; her mere presence was sanctification and blessedness. Surely she has earned the sweet repose of the ransomed spirit. As we gazed at her in her casket and noted how strong and peaceful she looked, the words of Holmes seemed especially appropriate for her:
"Death reaches not a spirit such as thine? It can but steal the robe that hid thy wings; Though thy warm breathing presence we resign, Still in our heart its loving semblance clings."
For Alice By Kate Thomas
Color and perfume! All spring ever gave Gladdens the world today; I may not see the green upon her grave She lies so far away.