By Milton Bennion THAT the conditions of modern life, in cities especially, have brought about radical changes in the home, and more particularly in the duties and responsibilities of children, is widely recognized. Many writers on modern education and some sociologists have lamented the fact that the home no longer furnishes favorable conditions for training children to carry their share of responsibilities in cooperation with other members of the family. In this respect, at least, they hold that the home has ceased to be an educational institution. Many educational administrators have for a generation, more or less, taken this for granted, and have devised various ways of annexing this responsibility to the schools. There is a tendency in human nature to idealize the past, to think only of its glory and to forget its gloom. There is also a widespread tendency to have visions of a future millennium when all the evils and deficiencies of the present will be automatically swept away. Thus the evils of the present become magnified in the light of the Eden of the past and the Paradise of the future. ANY rational consideration of historical and social facts will, however, convince anyone that the past had its evils and limitations, and that the millennium is not likely to come without long and persistent effort on the part of those that are to realize it. The multiplicity of duties in and about the old fashioned rural home doubtless did furnish, under wise parental leadership, excellent opportunities for moral training. It is also true that many parents were deficient in knowledge of child nature and education and so did not make use of these opportunities. It may be too severe even to think of the type of parent who was more interested in the care of his cattle than in the education of his children, and who would, unconsciously no doubt, sacrifice the future possibilities of his children for the betterment of his dairy herd. It was such grim facts as these that made necessary enactment of compulsory school attendance laws and other measures for the protection of children against the ignorance and the economic greed of some parents. These unsavory historical facts are here mentioned because there are quarters of the earth, and even parts of America, where these conditions still exist. The fact that they are more rare now than they were a century ago is to the credit of the present and a basis of hope for the future. S civilization advances and conditions change radically, mankind very naturally outgrows many social defects such, for instance, as that of stunting the physical and mental development of children through excessive toil. New conditions, however, bring new problems. People are frequently carried from one extreme to its opposite, from poverty and excessive toil to great wealth and luxury and with indolence 262 following in their trail, the familiar condition, "Where wealth accumulates and men decay." Yet wealth, properly used, may be a means of high and worthy attainment. Comfortable homes and modern conveniences need not destroy the moral influence of the home. The greater leisure and opportunities for study on the part of parents, together with the facilities of modern education now available to children, can be utilized for the improvement of home life. There is still work enough for all, for each in proportion to his abilities and his opportunities. ONE of the foundational principles of character education is development of personal and social responsibility. This is a quality of character that may be developed in. Some degree in early childhood; it should receive the attention of parents throughout the whole period of development of their children from infancy to maturity. The great need for developing a sense of responsibility is at once manifest to one who has to deal with a person deficient in this quality. One of the chief means of insurance against such deficiency is the wise use of home work as a means of training young people. The work to be done should, of course, be suited to the age and strength of the child and not of such a nature as to be excessively or persistently tedious. Care should be exercised not to antagonize the child or to have him feel that he is assigned work that is too menial for the parents themselves to do, or that he is working for his parents in slavish fashion rather than that he is working with them in the performance of necessary home tasks. Parents and children should be partners in the maintenance of their
 
common home. Parents are, of course, senior partners in the business, they should, however, never play the role of dictators or slave drivers. Two fundamental principles they should always keep uppermost in mind; i.e.
FIRST, they should recognize the fact that the child is a person and that requirements made of him should always be with his own ultimate best good in mind. He should never be regarded as merely a means to the fulfillment of the purposes of another, not even those of the parent. This is not to say that he may not be of service to parents; such service, however, should be of a kind that will, in the long run at least, be mutually helpful. The child labor laws of modern progressive states are based upon this principle. Any kind of labor that stunts the physical, intellectual, or moral development of a child is or ought to be illegal. This, however, is not true of many kinds and quantities of labor that children may perform in and about the home.
SECOND, a parent should never require the child to do anything that he is not willing, if able, to do himself. In line with this principle it is advantageous for the parent, whenever feasible, to work with the child. There is a fourfold advantage in this. It tends to dignify the work in the mind of the child; it creates a bond of sympathy between parent and child as they are engaged in a common task; it furnishes a most favorable opportunity for social intercourse, companionship, through which the parent may influence the attitudes and ideals of the child; it furnishes opportunity to develop confidential relations that may lead the child and later the youth, to
MORAL TRAINING 263
consult freely with the parent in regard to his difficult problems?problems most vital in their relation to his future development and happiness.
THE attitude of the child toward home work is influenced to a much greater extent by the actions and attitudes of the parent than by anything the parent may say. A cheerful, willing, joyous attitude on the part of the parent will tend to develop the same characteristics in the child. These qualities of character are contagious. It is to this kind of contagion that young people should be constantly exposed. On the other hand, if the parent regards the work as mere drudgery the child is almost sure to groan under the burden. Part of the difficulty comes about from one person's trying to do too much, thus lowering the vigor of both body and mind. Anything that is to be enjoyed must be done with zest. This zest is, however, influenced not only by fatigue, but also by interest, and this in turn by the thought that is given it. As to attitude, why not cultivate the habit of thinking of household tasks in the light of their importance, their contribution toward maintaining comfort, health or artistic standards.
A thoughtful person may readily appreciate the daily systematic care necessary to make and to keep a room attractive, the necessity of dishwashing, or the practical value of the dozen or more other routine tasks that have to be done every day or two or three times a day. Consider what home conditions are like when those tasks are not done, and they will at once appear as worth doing. Failure to perform some simple little task may cause distress out of all proportion to the time and care needed to do it.
263
All work should be carefully planned and, where possible, thoughtfully executed. Careful planning ahead saves time and effort and, as a rule, also improves the quality of the work.
WHAT are some of the labors in which both parents and children may participate? Let us begin in the kitchen, where there is that ever recurring task of cleaning and drying dishes, only too commonly thought of as drudgery. Where there are a number of persons in the household this job may be lightened and tendency toward monotony relieved by making it a cooperative one. For one person to have to wash, dry, and put away dishes three times a day, or even twice a day, is satisfactory only when there is no one available to help and to contribute good cheer to the occasion. The more dishes there are to care for, the more this fact is apparent. Children may well begin early to participate in this kitchen activity. A child that is old enough to begin first grade in the public school may well also begin first grade in the kitchen?drying and putting away knives, forks, and spoons, for instance, while other phases of the job are attended to by other members of the family.
Wiping dust from furniture and fixtures in the house is another simple task that the child may share with adults. The same may be said of keeping books, magazines, and papers in their proper places. In this it is partly a matter of training the child to put back in place at the proper time, things that he uses. He seems naturally prone to throw them down anywhere, assuming that the job of putting them in their proper places belongs of natural right to Mother, or to the maid, if there chances to be one.
 
Closely allied to this is the problem of cultivating thoughtfulness with regard to household affairs and such habits of orderliness and cleanliness as will reduce to the minimum the so-called drudgery of housekeeping. This in itself has great moral value.
It is not the purpose here to discuss the details of housekeeping, but merely to offer a few samples of what may very well be done by way of cooperative work and to direct attention to the moral values that may be derived from such cooperation between parent and child. This point is well illustrated by the story of the college girl who tells with enthusiasm of the good times she had with her mother while sharing with her the household tasks. Her mother used great ingenuity in making the work pleasant and a means of intimate companionship; this, to such an extent that both mother and daughter rather resented the intrusion of a third helper.
WITHOUT the house there is normally the problem of caring for lawn, flowers, and in some instances, vegetable garden and domestic animals. In these appendages of the home all members of the family should be interested; responsibility for their care, however generally falls to father and son; mother and daughters are likely, however, to be at least equally aggressive in promoting the artistic features of the home environment. In any case common interest is fostered by common participation in the labor and other responsibilities involved.
Any one may easily think of many other specific jobs in and about the home in which children and parents may share. While the values to be derived are here discussed with special reference to children and youths, it is nevertheless a fact that parents also may share in many of these moral values.
WHAT are some of these moral values in addition to that of developing individual and social responsibility? We suggest for consideration the following:
First, development of thrift habits. This means not only industry, but also the habit of wise spending and judicious saving. These qualities taken together are essential to economic independence. This remark carries the implication that money is somehow involved in connection with home work. It is, without doubt, one important aspect of the question, but, of course, not the only one. No child should get the notion that he should be paid for every home duty performed. He should rather grow up with the thought that the family is an economic unit, and that each member of the family should give of his time, energy, and means in proportion to his abilities, and that each should receive in proportion to his needs.
SOME of these needs are financial, and of these the child has a share, however small. He should learn early to evaluate money, to exercise self-restraint against spending it hastily and foolishly, and to learn as he grows older how to provide for his own needs. In some families each child has a weekly or a monthly allowance for his personal needs, or, may be for spending on his own pleasures. This plan is more favorable to development of responsibility, self-respect, and independence than is the plan of forcing a child to beg for every cent he gets. There are mothers who will readily understand this.
MORAL TRAINING 265
May it not, however, be better in connection with a regular allowance to assign some regular duties, not necessarily with the idea of fixing exactly the economic value of the duties, but rather with the idea of correlating in the mind of the child privileges with duties. This is a most fundamental principle in ethics, i.e., for every right or privilege there is a corresponding duty. This practice also tends to stimulate industry, responsibility, and practical adjustment to the principle that each should serve in proportion to his ability, while he receives in proportion to his needs. The amount to be paid will be determined in some measure by the circumstances of the family and in still larger measure by the use that is to be made of the money. Is it to be used for such things as candy and shows only, or is it also to pay for music and private music lessons, for clothing, or for other necessities? Consideration of abilities and needs?the utilitarian theory of property?rather than the labor theory alone, should always be uppermost. The labor theory has its value, but it is wholly inadequate to the economic life of the family. In itself it is even an inadequate basis for the economic life of the state. The child will, of course, receive much more than he can give; he should, however, develop to the point where this condition can be reversed. Meantime he should be acquiring habits of using his time, his abilities, and his economic resources in ways that will be most valuable to all concerned. Home work may save him from habits of careless use of time as well as of money, to say nothing of the evils of dissipation that may result from such idleness and carelessness.
265
CHILDREN should be trained to appreciate the value of time. They should be led to realize that their own accomplishments in life will depend primarily upon how they invest their time. To make the most effective investment there is need of a time budget. It is more important than is a financial budget, now so generally recognized as essential in all sound business practice. Yet many people are most wasteful of their time, throwing away hours when they would be horrified at the thought of throwing away dollars. Habits pertaining to the use of time are generally formed early in life. Children may be helped to form right habits by training them to budget their time, including, of course, the time allotted to home work and specifically to each job assigned to them. This may be an antidote against developing the habit of procrastination and mere dawdling over a piece of work.
IDLENESS and irresponsibility among the children of the well-to-do, where these conditions exist, may be a greater menace to them and to the nation than is much of the child labor now forbidden by law. This is no defense of such child labor. Child labor laws are here referred to only to emphasize the opposite evils of idleness and irresponsibility, which cannot easily be cured by legislation; the remedy is, however, within the power of the family, at least until the abilities and the needs of youth call for regular employment outside the home. It then becomes also a community problem. It should be noted in passing that one of the greatest community needs is extension of home employment to well regulated community employment for youths during their vacation periods. The lack of such
 
employment may be morally disastrous. Solution of this problem calls for cooperation of all parents with the schools and the business organizations of the community. Here is a great educational opportunity that should not be neglected.
VARIETY in the work to be done in and about the home; and, of course, suitable outside jobs for young people, have great value for pre-vocational education, vocational guidance, and possible future avocations. In the matter of selecting a life's work practical experience is indispensable, more important than mere theory. Both are essential to wise guidance. The home can make substantial contributions on the practical side. Parents may not properly dictate or in any degree attempt to coerce their sons and daughters into preparation for any particular vocation. They can, however, with justice lead their young people to see that they are morally obligated to choose and to qualify for a life's work, both as a means of social service and also as a means of their own economic independence. As a help toward this end they should provide their children with a variety of vocational experiences, and should cooperate with the schools in providing them with information about vocations. This subject may well be a topic of conversation while parent and youth are working together about the home. Concerning these matters an earnest, energetic youth is likely to have much more enthusiasm than practical wisdom. The opinion and counsel of a thoughtful, intelligent, and sympathetic parent may be a very valuable supplement to the inexperience of youth.
It may be suggested that all of this can be done quite apart from home work. That may be, but the
 
habit of doing things together develops a bond of sympathy and understanding that is not usually developed by talking together merely.
ANOTHER phase of this problem concerns training sons and daughters to become successful husbands and wives, fathers and mothers. Some one has recently suggested trial vocations as substitutes for trial marriages on the theory that if people were trained in vocations and had some experience in responsible work, and in this connection, learned the value of money and the necessity of wise and limited spending, there would be little need of trial marriages. This may be true, but of equal or even greater importance is practical experience in carrying on the essential work of the home. This is in part a matter of knowing how, but it is also and more fundamentally a matter of habit and attitude. One who has been trained from childhood to cooperate with other members of the family in carrying on the business of the household is much more likely to continue such cooperation in mature life than is one who has never been thus trained. Many a joyous honeymoon has been marred through one party's throwing all the home burden upon the other. When both parties shirk responsibility, home life becomes practically impossible and the young couple may then choose between a boarding house and the divorce court.
HABIT, as has often been pointed out, is one of the most powerful factors in life. The habits of childhood and youth tend to persist throughout life. This applies to the habit of work and the bearing of responsibilities about the home no less than it applies to other habits. Habits also tend to create attitudes and these together are important
MORAL TRAINING 267
factors in developing ideals, all of which combine to create the moral and social atmosphere of the home. Home work and the attitude of each member of the family toward that work is a very important factor in determining what the home atmosphere shall be.
The good or the evil results of training in the home do not, of course, end in the home, either the one in which the child grows up or in the new home he has founded. The results go out into the life of the whole community and affect the character of the state and the nation. The very life of these institutions is determined in large measure by the families of which they are constituted, and the kind of training each new generation of citizens receives in their home.
IRRESPONSIBLE and shiftless members of families are very naturally irresponsible and shiftless members of the community, persons
267
who are always willing to let some one else carry the load while they share the benefits. Such an attitude not infrequently leads to positive dishonesty. Out of this class ordinarily come the criminals, large and small, of the community. The more able and ambitious the individual the more disastrous may be the lack of proper training. On the contrary, the early establishment of habits of industry, responsibility, with harmonious cooperation in the family, lays the foundation for those qualities of character which make of the naturally capable the great social, political, and religious leaders of the community; while of those of ordinary or even less than ordinary ability it makes the substantial, dependable body of citizens upon whom the orderly life of the state and the nation depend.
Push a button or turn a switch.
Service.
At your home, office or factory.
Plan.
ELECTRIC SERVICE is Service plus!
The word service is so often used and so often misused that we hesitate to use it as descriptive of the service we offer you?because every time you avail yourself of its almost countless uses in the home, farm and factory, it is a dependable servant, always there when you
THE COMBINATION RATE
You have heard of our combination rate for home use of electricity. We would like to have the opportunity of going into it thoroughly and explaining its flexibility and advantages.
Call at our nearest office, or telephone for a representative to call. He will be glad to explain on the premises in just what ways Electric Service can be used by you at the highest efficiency and the lowest cost?and he will tell you also how easy it is to buy electric equipment from us on our convenient sales plan.
UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.