Faith of the Mothers By Linda S. Fletcher
Sadness, like a hovering shadow, Darkened all the Land of Melek, Wherein dwelt all righteous people, Designated "Those of Ammon"; For their brethren, known as Nephites, Sore beset by hordes of Laman, Struggled vainly, all around them, To drive out the cursed invader.
'Twas unrighteousness had weakened Nephi's children; and disunion Made them prey to their dark brethren.
Ammonite, was mighty Amlek,? Agony, the inner conflict, Which he knew. One voice now counseled: "Help the Nephites?aid the brethren, Who, through all these years, have cherished Thee and thine, since forth thou camest From the southern Land of Nephi,? From among the savage people,? Cleansed thy heart by Ammon's message? Called to Christ by joyous tidings, Which Mosiah's Sons did bring thee."
While Another spake within him: "Break not now thy testimony,? That great covenant thou madest With thy God, when thou didst bury All thy weapons for the shedding Of man's blood, thus bearing witness That thy sword, cleansed by repentance And the blood of God's Anointed, Should no more be used for slaying! Amlek, keep this vow, so holy, Lest thy soul forever perish!"
As the latter, counseled Helaman, The High Priest, 'mong Nephi's people.
Then, on Amlek's tortured musings Broke the voice so sweet, so gentle, Of his wife, the wise Deborah: "Grieve not, O my lord, my husband! God hath put it in our power To show gratitude for kindness Manifest to Ammon's people By the Nephites, our loved guardians, And yet keep our vows, so sacred!
Look! Lift up thine head from grieving And behold what we, the Mothers, Have devised, to aid in freeing Zarahemla's Land from Laman!"
Amlek, in a daze of wonder, Suffered that Deborah lead him To the door-step. Marching by them, To the sound of trump and cymbal, Strode two-thousand?yea, the flower Of young Ammonitish manhood? Boys?mere striplings?strong and graceful As young gods, in all the beauty That the living of God's precepts E'er bestows upon His children!
"See, our Sons!" proclaimed Deborah, "They the oath have never taken, Since too young to know its meaning, When we made our vows with Heaven.
 
Forth they go to fight our battles, Helaman, the Priest, their Leader; And the Holy One, who gave them,? Taught their mothers how to rear them, Goes with them to e'er protect them, Back to us to bring them safely, Till their measure of creation Is completed and perfected."
Forth they marched, the "Sons" two-thousand? (This, with love, their Leader called them)? Forth unto Judea, fared they, Aiding Antipus, who struggled 'Gainst the Lamanites, victorious In that part of Zarahemla, Where they'd taken Antiparah, Zeezrom, Manti and Cumeni.
And the God the "Sons" had trusted, Who, their mothers taught, would save them, If they doubted not, was with them! Fought they in the thick of battle, For the freedom of their country, Side by side with Nephite brethren, Till the Lamanites were driven From their lands?from all their cities!
And when Helaman did gather All his "Sons" at close of conflict, Not one young life had departed! For no soul of them had doubted God's great power to preserve them. Simply each proclaimed with fervor: "Thus declared our Mothers to us, And we doubt not that they knew it!"
O God, grant that we, as mothers May have faith as those of Ammon!
To her we give special honor this month. For the protection of Mother, and her family, life insurance was instigated and has done glorious work.
THE BIG HOME COMPANY
offers the best there is in life insurance
Beneficial Life Insurance Company
HEBER J. GRANT, Pres. E. T. RALPHS, Gen. Mgr.