British National Council of Women
FROM October 14 to 18 the City of Manchester, England, was host to the British National Council of Women. Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe, President of the Relief Society of the European Mission was appointed a delegate from the Liverpool Branch to the British National Council of Women, whose sessions were held in Albert Hall, Manchester, the "Manchester and Salford Woman Citizen" has this to say of the sessions:
"The program of the various public meetings, the subject for which, taking advantage of a comprehensive grouping under the title of 'Modern Developments,' cover a wide field of interests, is a most attractive one. A study of the subjects chosen for consideration by this conference of women delegates reveals the keen interest taken by them in aspects of modern life which are not exclusively feminine but which affect the home and the community and therefore men and women alike. With one exception all the subjects for the public meetings are of this character. One session is to be devoted to the general effect of broadcasting, the broadcasting of music and the influences of broadcasting in the home and the school: another is for the discussion of the two recent reports on police procedure and on street offences. The third open session is to deal with recent developments in child guidance and with the influence of the cinema, while the last is concerned with the preservation of the countryside. Such subjects command the attention of all who are concerned with our national well-being. The agenda of resolutions which will be discussed at the delegates' meetings show, as would be expected, a predominant concern with women's interests in public affairs, though here, too, there are references to matters of general interest, such as contamination of food, legal aid for poor prisoners, and slum clearance. Resolutions upon such important questions as the need for more women on local government bodies, the request for information on methods of birth control at maternity and child welfare centres, women property managers, etc., are in the true tradition of the National Council of Women, and show there is still need for vigilance on the part of women's societies in matters especially affecting women. There is an imposing list of distinguished speakers, men and women, and altogether the Conference promises to be of exceptional interest."
My Love By Vinna H. Lichfeld
With spreading fields in balmy air, My love is with the sunset glow, Its sacred moods, that I may know, With spreading fields in balmy air, With humming bee and song of bird And sunshine everywhere.