The European Missions
FROM Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe, President of the Relief Society of the European Missions, come interesting letters, reports, and pamphlets indicating how the work is going in these European centers. A spirit of interest characterizes the reports and explanations. In a farsighted and interesting program Mrs. Widtsoe's aids in the various missions are ably cooperating with her.
In a Conference of Relief Society Presidents, held at Durham House, 295 Edge Lane, Liverpool, from August 16-21, 1929, plans were made for the work of the following year. At the Conference were Sisters Leah D. Widtsoe, European Missions; Ida A. Petersen, Danish Mission; Rose Ellen B. Valentine, German-Austrian Mission; Eliza W. Tadje, Swiss-German Mission; Signe L. Hulterstrom, Swedish Mission; Josephine B. Lund, British Mission; Margaret A. Jensen, Norwegian Mission; Lillian D. Lillywhite, Netherlands Mission; also Elders C. Lowell Lees, acting as head of all the auxiliary work of the French Mission, and Juel L. Andreasen, of the Danish Mission.
The resolutions are so interesting that we are including the first fourteen:
Roll and Minutes:
1. A European Mission roll book shall be kept for future conferences; entries of the past three conferences are to be made. The minutes of the Conferences shall also be filed and kept.
2. The general policy of the conduct and courses of study of the Relief Society and other auxiliary work shall be in step with that of the Church, varying only as may be necessary to meet especial mission needs.
3. These changes where necessary, are to be regularly reported to Church Auxiliary Headquarters that the General Boards may be entirely acquainted with the reason for our departure from the outline of work adopted by the Church.
Mission Co-Ordination: 4. All the European Missions shall be harmonious with each other in their Relief Society and other auxiliary work—as to lessons and general outlines of procedure. The adopted course may be varied only as may be necessary to meet a peculiar condition which may arise and after consultation with the European officers. Any change in policy is to be reported to the European office.
5. The Relief Society as an organization for woman's advancement should be conducted by the women as much as possible, always with the sanction and blessing of the Priesthood. The Elders and brethren shall be called for help only as an emergency may arise, or a special need exists.
6. Each mission is to collect all data of past Relief Society activity by the end of 1930. That is to be our centennial contribution.
7. The uniform roll and minute book for local use is to be ready for use in all missions by January 1st, 1930.
8. Visiting teachers shall be encouraged in all missions and their work emphasized. A uniform book for teachers' use is to be prepared for each mission. Suitable teacher topics are to be printed each month.
9. The European office is to be, in fact, a "clearing house," an inspirational center for all the missions. When material is prepared for one mission's need, a copy shall be sent to all missions in case of similar need.
10. A copy of all material prepared by the missions for local needs shall be sent to the European office. When advisable, the European office may send such suggestions to other missions as may help them in a similar condition.
Lessons: 11. For 1930 all Relief Society and auxiliary lessons shall be uniform and shall be sent from the European office in time for use in all missions. The Relief Society lesson work shall be divided into a Winter program of 10 months; a Summer program of 2 months. During the Summer, the sisters may sew at every meeting to prepare for Fall Bazaars.
12. The officers pledge themselves to see that all refreshments served under Relief Society auspices shall be Word of Wisdom foods. All harmful drinks, including coca-cola, shall be forbidden, we should emphasize the health drinks to take their place. The use of natural foods and simple refreshments shall be encouraged.
13. The Relief Society of each branch where baptisms are performed are to prepare and keep on hand, two or more sets of baptismal clothes, for young and old, to be used by those who need them, and to prevent the necessity of purchase for the one event.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Pageant of Woman's Works: 14. A pageant depicting woman's participation in the founding and history of the Church shall be given as part of the 1929 celebration. Competition to be called for by January 1st, 1930, and given out by January 15th.
IN the lessons on health outlined for the missions there is so much farsightedness that we devote some space to this topic. The lessons have been put out under the caption of Word of Wisdom Lessons. Conditions in England among the working people, whose incomes are small, suggest that the people are undernourished and that the food that they have is out of harmony with health laws. While they have been in the habit of eating concentrated food such as "meat and pudding," their diet as a whole contains very little milk, fruit or green vegetables. Mrs. Widtsoe is well prepared to put over a program on nutrition; practically all her life she has been interested in such problems, and has had special training for the work; and her plan would naturally include the Word of Wisdom.
In a report forwarded to President Louise Y. Robison, she says, "That's why we have rather emphasized the Word of Wisdom: That's why I've emphasized the spending of the little they do have for foods that build the body—its bone, muscle, and nerve tissue—as cheaply as possible. Most of their food is imported and reaches them so devitalized and commercialized that it may be shipped from earth's ends."
The women are enjoying the nutrition lessons, and are waking up with new interest. A number
THE EUROPEAN MISSIONS
of people have come under Sister Widtsoe's notice who are reaping untold benefits, who are better fed on less money, and have an unlooked-for increase of pep and vigor. All the European Missions are giving the Word of Wisdom lessons with similar results. The work is fundamental moral fitness and intellectual fitness, being closely related to physical fitness.
It has been our good fortune to spend time in England at three different periods; we therefore recognize that conditions among the people of that country are such, that they badly need lessons on nutrition. Often tea is made to substitute for practically all the nutritive foods that are necessary to build the body. It is gratifying to know that Sister Widtsoe and her aids have planned a program so worth while and helpful.